Does Telstra Group (ASX:TLS) Deserve A Spot On Your Watchlist? 2023-09-27T20:42:28.000Z

For beginners, it can seem like a good idea (and an exciting prospect) to buy a company that tells a good story to investors, even if it currently lacks a track record of revenue and profit. Sometimes these stories can cloud the minds of investors, leading them to invest with their emotions rather than on the merit of good company fundamentals. While a well funded company may sustain losses for years, it will need to generate a profit eventually, or else investors will move on and the company will wither away.
If this kind of company isn't your style, you like companies that generate revenue, and even earn profits, then you may well be interested in 
 (
). While profit isn't the sole metric that should be considered when investing, it's worth recognising businesses that can consistently produce it.
Even when EPS earnings per share (EPS) growth is unexceptional, company value can be created if this rate is sustained each year. So it's easy to see why many investors focus in on EPS growth. Telstra Group's EPS has risen over the last 12 months, growing from AU$0.14 to AU$0.17. That's a 16% gain; respectable growth in the broader scheme of things.
Careful consideration of revenue growth and earnings before interest and taxation (EBIT) margins can help inform a view on the sustainability of the recent profit growth. Telstra Group shareholders can take confidence from the fact that EBIT margins are up from 12% to 15%, and revenue is growing. Both of which are great metrics to check off for potential growth.
In the chart below, you can see how the company has grown earnings and revenue, over time. Click on the chart to see the exact numbers.
In investing, as in life, the future matters more than the past. So why not check out this 
 
?
It's said that there's no smoke without fire. For investors, insider buying is often the smoke that indicates which stocks could set the market alight. That's because insider buying often indicates that those closest to the company have confidence that the share price will perform well. Of course, we can never be sure what insiders are thinking, we can only judge their actions.
We note that Telstra Group insiders spent AU$246k on stock, over the last year; in contrast, we didn't see any selling. That paints the company in a nice light, as it signals that its leaders are feeling confident in where the company is heading. Zooming in, we can see that the biggest insider purchase was by Non-Executive Director Maxine Brenner for AU$116k worth of shares, at about AU$4.02 per share.
On top of the insider buying, it's good to see that Telstra Group insiders have a valuable investment in the business. As a matter of fact, their holding is valued at AU$34m. This considerable investment should help drive long-term value in the business. While their ownership only accounts for 0.08%, this is still a considerable amount at stake to encourage the business to maintain a strategy that will deliver value to shareholders.
While insiders are apparently happy to hold and accumulate shares, that is just part of the big picture. That's because Telstra Group's CEO, Vicki Brady, is paid at a relatively modest level when compared to other CEOs for companies of this size. For companies with market capitalisations over AU$13b, like Telstra Group, the median CEO pay is around AU$6.3m.
Telstra Group's CEO took home a total compensation package worth AU$5.2m in the year leading up to June 2023. That is actually below the median for CEO's of similarly sized companies. CEO remuneration levels are not the most important metric for investors, but when the pay is modest, that does support enhanced alignment between the CEO and the ordinary shareholders. It can also be a sign of good governance, more generally.
One positive for Telstra Group is that it is growing EPS. That's nice to see. On top of that, we've seen insiders buying shares 
. That makes the company a prime candidate for your watchlist - and arguably a research priority. You still need to take note of risks, for example - Telstra Group has 
 we think you should be aware of.
The good news is that Telstra Group is not the only growth stock with insider buying. Here's 
 
================================================================================

Telstra Group's (ASX:TLS) 16% CAGR outpaced the company's earnings growth over the same three-year period 2023-10-11T21:33:17.000Z

By buying an index fund, you can roughly match the market return with ease. But many of us dare to dream of bigger returns, and build a portfolio ourselves. For example, the 
 (
) share price is up 38% in the last three years, clearly besting the market return of around 12% (not including dividends). However, more recent returns haven't been as impressive as that, with the stock returning just 6.5% in the last year , including dividends .
Since it's been a strong week for Telstra Group shareholders, let's have a look at trend of the longer term fundamentals.
There is no denying that markets are sometimes efficient, but prices do not always reflect underlying business performance. One flawed but reasonable way to assess how sentiment around a company has changed is to compare the earnings per share (EPS) with the share price.
During three years of share price growth, Telstra Group achieved compound earnings per share growth of 2.9% per year. This EPS growth is lower than the 11% average annual increase in the share price. This indicates that the market is feeling more optimistic on the stock, after the last few years of progress. It is quite common to see investors become enamoured with a business, after a few years of solid progress.
You can see below how EPS has changed over time (discover the exact values by clicking on the image).
We like that insiders have been buying shares in the last twelve months. Having said that, most people consider earnings and revenue growth trends to be a more meaningful guide to the business. This 
 interactive report on Telstra Group's 
 is a great place to start, if you want to investigate the stock further.
It is important to consider the total shareholder return, as well as the share price return, for any given stock. The TSR incorporates the value of any spin-offs or discounted capital raisings, along with any dividends, based on the assumption that the dividends are reinvested. It's fair to say that the TSR gives a more complete picture for stocks that pay a dividend. As it happens, Telstra Group's TSR for the last 3 years was 57%, which exceeds the share price return mentioned earlier. The dividends paid by the company have thusly boosted the 
 shareholder return.
Telstra Group provided a TSR of 6.5% over the last twelve months. But that return falls short of the market. If we look back over five years, the returns are even better, coming in at 10% per year for five years. It's quite possible the business continues to execute with prowess, even as the share price gains are slowing. I find it very interesting to look at share price over the long term as a proxy for business performance. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. For example, we've discovered 
 that you should be aware of before investing here.
Telstra Group is not the only stock insiders are buying. So take a peek at this 
 
 
================================================================================

Telstra Group (ASX:TLS) Hasn't Managed To Accelerate Its Returns 2023-10-25T23:19:37.000Z

To find a multi-bagger stock, what are the underlying trends we should look for in a business? In a perfect world, we'd like to see a company investing more capital into its business and ideally the returns earned from that capital are also increasing. If you see this, it typically means it's a company with a great business model and plenty of profitable reinvestment opportunities. However, after briefly looking over the numbers, we don't think 
 (
) has the makings of a multi-bagger going forward, but let's have a look at why that may be.
For those who don't know, ROCE is a measure of a company's yearly pre-tax profit (its return), relative to the capital employed in the business. The formula for this calculation on Telstra Group is:
0.095 = AU$3.3b ÷ (AU$45b - AU$10b) 
.
So, 
 On its own, that's a low figure but it's around the 8.3% average generated by the Telecom industry.
In the above chart we have measured Telstra Group's prior ROCE against its prior performance, but the future is arguably more important. If you're interested, you can view the analysts predictions in our 
 
.
Things have been pretty stable at Telstra Group, with its capital employed and returns on that capital staying somewhat the same for the last five years. Businesses with these traits tend to be mature and steady operations because they're past the growth phase. So don't be surprised if Telstra Group doesn't end up being a multi-bagger in a few years time. On top of that you'll notice that Telstra Group has been paying out a large portion (93%) of earnings in the form of dividends to shareholders. Most shareholders probably know this and own the stock for its dividend.
We can conclude that in regards to Telstra Group's returns on capital employed and the trends, there isn't much change to report on. Although the market must be expecting these trends to improve because the stock has gained 57% over the last five years. Ultimately, if the underlying trends persist, we wouldn't hold our breath on it being a multi-bagger going forward.
On a final note, we've found 
 that we think you should be aware of.
For those who like to invest in 
 check out this 
 
 
================================================================================

An Intrinsic Calculation For Telstra Group Limited (ASX:TLS) Suggests It's 49% Undervalued 2023-11-10T22:41:52.000Z

Today we will run through one way of estimating the intrinsic value of Telstra Group Limited (
) by taking the expected future cash flows and discounting them to today's value. We will take advantage of the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model for this purpose. It may sound complicated, but actually it is quite simple!
Remember though, that there are many ways to estimate a company's value, and a DCF is just one method. For those who are keen learners of equity analysis, the 
 may be something of interest to you.
We're using the 2-stage growth model, which simply means we take in account two stages of company's growth. In the initial period the company may have a higher growth rate and the second stage is usually assumed to have a stable growth rate. To begin with, we have to get estimates of the next ten years of cash flows. Where possible we use analyst estimates, but when these aren't available we extrapolate the previous free cash flow (FCF) from the last estimate or reported value. We assume companies with shrinking free cash flow will slow their rate of shrinkage, and that companies with growing free cash flow will see their growth rate slow, over this period. We do this to reflect that growth tends to slow more in the early years than it does in later years.
Generally we assume that a dollar today is more valuable than a dollar in the future, so we need to discount the sum of these future cash flows to arrive at a present value estimate:
 = AU$26b
After calculating the present value of future cash flows in the initial 10-year period, we need to calculate the Terminal Value, which accounts for all future cash flows beyond the first stage. The Gordon Growth formula is used to calculate Terminal Value at a future annual growth rate equal to the 5-year average of the 10-year government bond yield of 2.1%. We discount the terminal cash flows to today's value at a cost of equity of 6.1%.
= FCF
 × (1 + g) ÷ (r – g) = AU$4.5b× (1 + 2.1%) ÷ (6.1%– 2.1%) = AU$115b
= TV / (1 + r)
= AU$115b÷ ( 1 + 6.1%)
= AU$64b
The total value is the sum of cash flows for the next ten years plus the discounted terminal value, which results in the Total Equity Value, which in this case is AU$90b. In the final step we divide the equity value by the number of shares outstanding. Compared to the current share price of AU$3.9, the company appears quite undervalued at a 49% discount to where the stock price trades currently. Remember though, that this is just an approximate valuation, and like any complex formula - garbage in, garbage out.
The calculation above is very dependent on two assumptions. The first is the discount rate and the other is the cash flows. You don't have to agree with these inputs, I recommend redoing the calculations yourself and playing with them. The DCF also does not consider the possible cyclicality of an industry, or a company's future capital requirements, so it does not give a full picture of a company's potential performance. Given that we are looking at Telstra Group as potential shareholders, the cost of equity is used as the discount rate, rather than the cost of capital (or weighted average cost of capital, WACC) which accounts for debt. In this calculation we've used 6.1%, which is based on a levered beta of 0.800. Beta is a measure of a stock's volatility, compared to the market as a whole. We get our beta from the industry average beta of globally comparable companies, with an imposed limit between 0.8 and 2.0, which is a reasonable range for a stable business.
Although the valuation of a company is important, it shouldn't be the only metric you look at when researching a company. The DCF model is not a perfect stock valuation tool. Rather it should be seen as a guide to "what assumptions need to be true for this stock to be under/overvalued?" For instance, if the terminal value growth rate is adjusted slightly, it can dramatically alter the overall result. What is the reason for the share price sitting below the intrinsic value? For Telstra Group, we've put together three relevant factors you should assess:
PS. The Simply Wall St app conducts a discounted cash flow valuation for every stock on the ASX every day. If you want to find the calculation for other stocks just 
.
 
================================================================================

20 Largest Telecom Companies in The World by Revenue 2023-11-22T14:46:35.000Z

In this article, we will take a look at 20 largest telecom companies in the world by revenue. If you want to skip our detailed analysis, you can go directly to 
.
According to a 
 by Grandview Research, the global telecom services market was valued at $1.81 billion in 2022. The global telecom market is expected to grow from $1.89 trillion in 2023 to $2.87 trillion in 2030 at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 6.2%. According to the report, the Asia Pacific holds 33% of the share and is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 7% from 2023 to 2030. China, India, and Japan are major players in the region. The increasing integration of digital technologies has fueled the telecom market in APAC.
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:
) 
Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ:CMCSA) is a prominent name in the telecom industry. The company provides a range of services to its two segments: residential connectivity and platforms, and business services connectivity. Notable services include residential broadband and wireless connectivity services, residential and business video services, advertising sales, and Sky channels to name a few. The diversified portfolio of Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ:CMCSA) explains the strong financial results of the company. On October 26, Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ:CMCSA) reported earnings for the fiscal third quarter of 2023. The company reported earnings per share of $1.08, beating estimates by $0.13. The company reported revenue of $30.12 billion, ahead of market consensus by $442.49 million, with a year on year revenue growth rate of 0.89%.
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) is one of the largest telecom companies based in the United States. The company offers a range of services in communications technology, information, and entertainment to name a few. Notable telecom solutions offered by the company include wireless networks, fixed wireless access broadband, and wireline services. On November 16, Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) in collaboration with Norfolk International Terminal (NIT) 
 an agreement to establish a Verizon Private 5G Network in Virginia. The network spreads across 270 acres of the NIT campus and comes with an Ultra Wideband spectrum to establish secure, instant voice, text, and data communication within the campus via Verizon's mobile app, Verizon Push to Talk Plus (PTT). The mobile app forges worksite collaboration across phones, smartphones, and tablets on the Verizon private network.
Let's now take a look at the 20 largest telecom companies in the world by revenue.
20 Largest Telecom Companies in The World by Revenue
For our title, 20 largest telecom companies in the world by revenue, we first sifted through the Yahoo Finance and Finviz stock screeners to find the most prominent and largest telecom companies by market cap. We then consulted industry reports listing the largest companies in the telecom industry. This thorough process enabled us to create an initial pool of 35 telecom companies. We then sourced the trailing twelve-month revenue figures from Macrotrends for each company. In the case of the unavailability of trailing 12-month revenue figures, we sourced annual revenue figures from the company's official annual reports The list of the 20 largest telecom companies in the world by revenue is in ascending order of the trailing 12-month revenue or annual sales revenue for the latest year.
TELUS Corporation (NYSE:TU) is one of the leading telecom companies in the world. The company operates across two segments including technology solutions and digitally led customer experiences. The company offers a range of telecom solutions including network services, data services, internet protocol, and television hosting to name a few. TELUS Corporation (NYSE:TU) was founded in 1998.
Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ:CMCSA), Deutsche Telekom AG (OTC:DTEGY), and Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) are among the most prominent names in the telecom industry.
Lumen Technologies, Inc. (NYSE:LUMN) ranks among one of the largest telecom companies in the world. The company offers a range of integrated products and services under the Lumen, Quantum Fiber, and CenturyLink brands. Some of the key products offered by the company include edge cloud services, IT solutions, data center services, content delivery services, and managed security services. Lumen Technologies, Inc. (NYSE:LUMN) was founded in 1968.
With a trailing 12-month revenue of $18.3 billion as of September 30, 2023, BCE Inc. (NYSE:BCE) ranks among the largest telecom companies in the world. The company engages in the provision of wireless, wireline, internet, and television services to consumers in Canada. The company offers its services across three segments including Bell Wireless, Bell Wireline, and Bell Media. BCE Inc. (NYSE:BCE) was founded in 1880.
KT Corporation (NYSE:KT) is a leading telecom company offering integrated telecommunications and platform services. The company offers a range of telecom solutions including fixed-line telephone services, domestic long-distance, and voice-over internet protocol telephone services. KT Corporation (NYSE:KT) has a market cap of $6.34 billion as of November 19, 2023.
Telstra Group Limited (OTC:TLGPY) is one of the largest telecom companies in the world by revenue. The company offers telecommunications and information services to customers across Australia and Internationally. The company operates across four segments including Telstra consumer and small business, Telstra enterprise, networks and IT, and Telstra Infraco. Telstra Group Limited (OTC:TLGPY) was founded in 1901 and is based in Melbourne, Australia.
BT Group plc (OTC:BTGOF) ranks among the largest telecom companies in the world. The company engages in the provision of landline, mobile, broadband, home, and cyber security to name a few. BT Group plc (OTC:BTGOF) was founded in 2001 and has its headquarters in London, United Kingdom.
KDDI Corporation (OTC:KDDIY) is a leading telecom company in Japan. The company operates across two segments including personal services and business services. The company engages in the provision of telecommunication services to personal customers, and the provision of smartphones and networks to business customers. With a market cap of $64.66 billion as of November 19, KDDI Corporation (OTC:KDDIY) ranks among the largest telecom companies in the world. The company was founded in 1984.
Telefónica, S.A. (NYSE:TEF) is one of the largest telecom companies in the world. The company engages in the provision of mobile and related services including mobile voice, value added, mobile data, and internet services to name a few. Telefónica, S.A. (NYSE:TEF) was founded in 1924 in Madrid, Spain, and has a market cap of $23.8 billion as of November 19, 2023.
Orange S.A. (NYSE:ORAN) is a leading telecom company in the world. The company engages in the provision of fixed telephony, mobile telecommunications, data transmission, and other value added services to customers. The company offers its services in France, Spain, and a few other European countries. Orange S.A. (NYSE:ORAN) was founded in 2013 in France and has a market cap of $32.09 billion as of November 19, 2023.
SoftBank Group Corp. (OTC:SFTBY) is one of the largest telecom companies in the world. The company engages in the provision of telecom services in Japan and internationally. The company operates across various segments, including the Investment Business of Holding Companies, SoftBank Vision Funds, SoftBank, Arm, and others. SoftBank Group Corp. (OTC:SFTBY) has a market cap of $59.19 billion as of November 19, 2023.
Vodafone Group Public Limited Company (NASDAQ:VOD) is a telecommunication services company based in the United Kingdom. The company engages in the provision of mobile connection services including end-to-end services for mobile voice and data, messaging, device management, BYOx, and telecoms management to name a few. Vodafone Group Public Limited Company (NASDAQ:VOD) was founded in 1984 in the United Kingdom and has a market cap of $25.5 billion as of November 19, 2023.
Charter Communications, Inc. (NASDAQ:CHTR) is one of the largest telecom companies in the world by revenue. The company is based in the United States and engages in the provision of subscription-based internet, video, mobile, and voice services. 
China Telecom Corporation Limited (0728.HK) ranks among the largest telecom companies in the world. The company engages in the provision of wireless and mobile telecommunications services in China. The company offers wireline voice services, local wireline telephone services, and long-distance wireline services to name a few. China Telecom Corporation Limited (0728.HK) was founded in 2002 and has a market cap of $60.99 billion as of November 19, 2023.
Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation (OTC:NTTYY) is one of the largest telecom companies in the world with a trailing 12-month revenue of $72.7 billion as of June 30, 2023. The company is a telecom company based in Japan. The company operates through various segments including integrated ICT business, regional communications business, global solutions business, and other segments. Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation (OTC:NTTYY) has a market cap of $98.9 billion as of November 19, 2023.
T-Mobile US, Inc. (NASDAQ:TMUS) is one of the largest telecom companies in the world. Based in the United States, the company engages in the provision of wireless devices, smartphones, wearables, tablets, and home broadband routers to name a few. T-Mobile US, Inc. (NASDAQ:TMUS) was founded in 1994 in Washington and has a market cap of $172.17 billion as of November 16, 2023.
Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ:CMCSA), Deutsche Telekom AG (OTC:DTEGY), and Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) dominate the global wireless and mobile telecommunications services market.
.
Suggested Articles:
None. 
 is originally published on Insider Monkey.
================================================================================

Q4 2023 Assurant Inc Earnings Call 2024-02-08T04:30:03.000Z

Keith Roland Meier; Executive VP & CFO; Assurant, Inc.
Keith Warner Demmings; President, CEO & Director; Assurant, Inc.
Sean Moshier; VP of IR; Assurant, Inc.
Brian Robert Meredith; MD, Financials Research Sector Head & Global Insurance Strategist; UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Grace Helen Carter; Research Analyst; BofA Securities, Research Division
John Bakewell Barnidge; MD & Senior Research Analyst; Piper Sandler & Co., Research Division
Mark Douglas Hughes; MD; Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Thomas Patrick McJoynt-Griffith; Assistant Analyst; Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Welcome to Assurant's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2023 Conference Call and Webcast. (Operator Instructions) It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Sean Moshier, Vice President of Investor Relations. You may begin.
Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. We look forward to discussing our fourth quarter and full year 2023 results with you today. Joining me for Assurant's conference call are Keith Demmings, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Keith Meier, our Chief Financial Officer. Yesterday, after the market closed, we issued a news release announcing our results for the fourth quarter and full year 2023. The release and corresponding financial supplement are available on assurant.com. Also on our website is a slide presentation that we introduced this quarter for our webcast participants. 
Some of the statements made today are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are based upon our historical performance and current expectations and subject to risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these statements. Additional information regarding these factors can be found in the earnings release, presentation and financial supplement on our website as well as in our SEC reports. 
During today's call, we will refer to non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe are important in evaluating the company's performance. For more details on these measures, the most comparable GAAP measures, and a reconciliation of the 2, please refer to the news release and supporting materials. 
We'll start today's call with remarks before moving into Q&A. I will now turn the call over to Keith Demmings. Keith?
Thanks, Sean, and good morning, everyone. 2023 was an extraordinary year for Assurant, our seventh consecutive year of profitable growth. We drove shareholder value by delivering financial outperformance, maintaining a strong capital position and generating significant momentum throughout our businesses. Adjusted EBITDA grew 21% to nearly $1.4 billion, and adjusted EPS increased by 26%, both excluding reportable catastrophes. 
Our results were driven by the strength of our Homeowners business within Global Housing, which delivered adjusted EBITDA growth of nearly 65%, excluding cats. In addition, our Connected Living business continued to grow, supported by our strong U.S. partnerships with mobile carriers and cable operators, and our ability to innovate and execute for our clients. 
Together, Lifestyle and Housing generated nearly $775 million in dividends. This allowed us to return over $350 million to shareholders, including $200 million of share repurchases. 2023 was a testament to the power and attractive financial profile of our unique and differentiated Lifestyle and Housing businesses. 
Assurant would not have been able to achieve this level of success without our talented people, including our newly refreshed management committee, further strengthening our leadership team. As we celebrate our 20th year as a public company, I am proud of the world-class culture we've created, exemplified by the many recognitions Assurant has received throughout 2023. Earlier this week, JUST 100 included Assurant as part of its 2024 rankings of America's most JUST companies, recognizing our commitment to serving our employees, customers, communities, the environment and our shareholders. 
In addition, we received recognition from Fortune as 1 of America's most innovative companies, and Newsweek recognized the progress we've made to incorporate sustainability into our strategy by placing us on its list of America's most responsible companies. The dedication from our employees and leadership team, who strive to achieve our vision every day, makes it possible to innovate to better serve our clients and create value for our shareholders. 
We begin 2024 in a position of strength and with great momentum. Over the past 2 years, we focused on further strengthening our business portfolio and driving operational excellence while accelerating innovation. By investing in businesses where we have leadership positions, we believe we're well positioned for future success. 
For instance, within Global Lifestyle, we've grown our presence in specialized markets, including in the commercial equipment space, where acquisitions have contributed to new client partnerships. We've strengthened our company through active portfolio management, making decisions to exit businesses that are not core to our long-term strategy. This included exiting our sharing economy offerings and international cat exposed businesses in Housing, further simplifying our portfolio. 
We've made significant progress in driving operational excellence across Assurant with a streamlined organizational structure and real estate footprint. We've implemented Digital First initiatives across our operations to support our businesses and drive value for end consumers. Finally, we've accelerated innovation in a variety of ways to drive our business growth. Moving forward, technology innovation will continue to be an important driver of growth and value creation for Assurant. 
Our approach has driven success within our financial results, and is evident in our track record of winning new business and renewing client partnerships. This expansion of our client base is an integral part of our strategy and creates important tailwinds as we look toward the future. 
Now turning to highlights across our business segments. For 2023, Global Lifestyle earnings were relatively flat on a constant currency basis. In Connected Living, 2023 represented another year of growth for the business, with a 3% increase in earnings. Within our U.S. business, we drove high single-digit EBITDA growth as we continue to innovate and execute for our growing carrier and cable operator clients through our device protection programs. We strengthened critical partnerships, including Spectrum Mobile, where we provide mobile protection, trade-in and other value-added services. In addition, we expanded our trade-in programs with major OEMs by adding a large new partner as well as renewing AT&T, where we're deploying robotics in our mobile device facilities throughout the U.S. 
We continue to make progress internationally. In Europe, we stabilized earnings by driving expense efficiencies while continuing to address ongoing macroeconomic challenges. Throughout Asia Pacific, we're excited by our market position and our long-term outlook. We're very pleased to announce a new partnership with Telstra, Australia's largest mobile operator. Our new multiyear deal will allow us to provide comprehensive products to support the end-to-end device life cycle for Telstra's broad base of customers, including their core mobile protection program as well as trade-in and repair capabilities. This partnership is significant as we continue to build our presence in Asia Pacific. 
Turning to Auto. Year-over-year declines were driven by inflationary impacts on claims costs. Beginning in 2022, we took decisive action to address significant inflation that impacted the auto repair industry. For the handful of deal structures, where we've been negatively impacted by underwriting results, we successfully partnered with our clients to implement meaningful rate increases, while making important changes to strengthen and enhance our claims adjudication process. Given the longer average duration of our auto service contracts, we'll earn through the full benefit of these actions over time, with improvement expected to begin in 2024. 
Based on the actions taken in Auto and the continued growth of Connected Living, we feel well positioned to deliver Global Lifestyle growth in 2024. 
Let's move on to Global Housing. In 2023, this segment grew significantly, driving our overall enterprise performance. The growth was led by our Homeowners business, which was supported by higher premiums and in-force policy growth. The business rebounded from the inflation impacts on claims experienced in 2022 and also benefited from favorable prior year reserve development. 
In addition to highlighting the significant earnings power of the business, our '23 housing results demonstrated differentiated returns and strong cash flow. Excluding favorable prior year development, our 2023 combined ratio was 83%, including $111 million of reportable cats, which was below our assumed annual cat load of $140 million. 
We are also very pleased to announce a new partnership in our lender-placed business. Beginning in the first quarter of 2024, we'll provide lender-placed insurance services to Bank of America's $1.8 million loan portfolio, further enhancing our market position and validating the competitive strength of our offerings. In renters and other, we increased earnings modestly in 2023 as our property management channel continued to expand. Written premiums in the property management channel grew nearly 20% in 2023. Along with adding new clients, we also achieved double-digit growth across 8 of our top 10 PMC clients, creating significant business momentum. Growth was supported by the continued expansion of Cover360, where we now track over 1 million residents, a nearly 45% increase over the prior year. Technology innovation also enhanced our digital customer experience, including a new digital agent leasing portal and expanded claims processing powered by machine learning. 
Let's turn to our 2024 enterprise outlook. We expect continued profitable growth in 2024, driven by our business momentum. While growth is expected to be lower than the significant outperformance we delivered in 2023, we expect our '24 results will demonstrate the combined earnings power of our advantaged portfolio. Adjusted EBITDA, excluding cats, is expected to grow mid-single digits, with Global Lifestyle and Global Housing delivering similar growth rates for the year. Adjusted EPS growth is expected to modestly trail adjusted EBITDA growth, primarily reflecting higher annual depreciation expenses related to technology investments critical in executing our strategy. 
Before concluding, I'd like to introduce our recently appointed CFO, Keith Meier. Keith has been with Assurant for over 25 years and has served in leadership positions, managing P&Ls across many of Assurant's businesses. In his most recent role as Chief Operating Officer, Keith led the transformation of our technology and drove significant operational efforts to support the end customer experience. I have no doubt that Keith, as our CFO, will be an enabler of driving profitable growth while allocating capital strategically. 
Now over to Keith to review our quarterly results and 2024 outlook in further detail.
Thanks, Keith, and good morning, everyone. Before reviewing the quarterly results, I'd like to share my perspectives as I'm about to wrap up my first 90 days as Assurant's CFO. During my time at Assurant, I've been fortunate to have led several businesses as well as take on a variety of other roles across the organization, including most recently, leading our technology and operational teams. These experiences have provided me with deep insights into our global clients and the understanding of what is needed to deliver a high level of business performance, always backed by strong financial expertise and discipline. 
As CFO, driving growth and financial performance will continue to be my priorities. I'm focused on ensuring our capital position remains strong as we create additional shareholder value and drive profitable growth through further innovation and differentiation within our product portfolio. 
As I look toward the future, I'm also focused on continued expense efficiencies by utilizing digital and AI technology, which also enables us to deliver better customer experiences. Lastly, I appreciated the opportunity to meet with many of our investors, employees and clients over the last several months and their willingness to share observations about Assurant as I began my tenure as CFO. Our discussions have enabled me to better shape my views and the path going forward. 
Now let's talk about our fourth quarter financial results, which reinforce the strength of our businesses and the performance that we've seen throughout the year. For the quarter, adjusted EBITDA grew 29% to $382 million, and adjusted EPS increased by 38% to $4.90, both excluding reportable catastrophes. Adjusted earnings and EPS growth were driven by year-over-year growth in both Housing and Lifestyle. Our capital position remains strong, generating $280 million of segment dividends in the fourth quarter and ending the year with $606 million of holding company liquidity. This allowed us to return $169 million to shareholders in the quarter, including $130 million of share repurchases. 
Let's review the businesses, beginning with Global Lifestyle. For the quarter, adjusted EBITDA grew 12% to $205 million, led by strong earnings growth of 23% within Connected Living as our U.S. mobile protection programs continued to grow. Higher yields on invested assets also contributed to the improved fourth quarter results. 
Globally, our trade-in programs represent a critical component of our device life cycle value proposition, as well as a fee-based income driver supporting the growth of our mobile business. Throughout 2023, we serviced over 25 million devices, including 7.5 million in the fourth quarter, which represented a high watermark for the year. While trade-in results were down modestly year-over-year, we saw fee income growth from higher sale prices for used devices and contributions from new U.S. trade-in programs. 
Internationally, we continue to be impacted by subscriber declines in Japan, but have stabilized performance in a challenging macroeconomic backdrop. 
In Global Auto, fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was relatively flat as higher claims costs from inflation were offset by higher investment income. Claims were also elevated from the expected normalization of auto ancillary products and from international clients. 
During the latter part of the year, we saw positive signs in U.S. loss trends as we began to benefit from prospective rate increases that were implemented. 
Turning to net earned premiums, fees and other income. Lifestyle grew by $268 million or 13%. Growth from Global Automotive, which increased 14%, was due to $85 million of non-run rate premium adjustments with no corresponding earnings impact as well as prior period sales of vehicle service contracts. Connected Living net earned premiums, fees and other income increased 12%, benefiting from contributions from new trade-in programs, higher prices on used mobile devices and modest growth in North America mobile subscribers. Looking ahead to 2024, we expect Global Lifestyle's adjusted EBITDA to grow, driven by both Connected Living and Global Automotive. 
We expect growth in Connected Living to be led by the continued expansion of our U.S. business. We expect Japan and Europe to remain generally stable throughout the year. 
In Global Auto, we expect rate actions taken over the past 18 months to drive improvement over time, beginning in 2024. Investments related to new client implementations will temper growth in 2024 for Lifestyle, but are critical levers to expand our portfolio and strengthen our business over the long term. We continue to monitor foreign exchange impacts, broader macroeconomic conditions and interest rates, which may impact the pace and timing of growth. 
In terms of full year net earned premiums, fees and other income, lifestyle is expected to grow mainly from our Connected Living business. 
Moving to Global Housing. 2023 was truly a strong year. We drove growth from the actions taken over the past few years to ensure rate adequacy and drive expense leverage while benefiting from the streamlining that we undertook to simplify our portfolio. Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $186 million, which included $22 million of reportable cats. Excluding reportable cats, adjusted EBITDA increased by nearly 50% or $68 million to $208 million. 2/3 of the increase was driven by favorable non-cat loss experience in homeowners including a favorable year-over-year impact of $35 million related to prior period reserve development. 
This was comprised of $40 million of reserve reductions in the current quarter compared to a $5 million reduction in the fourth quarter of 2022. The remainder of the adjusted EBITDA increase was from continued top line growth in homeowners from higher premiums and an increase in the number of in-force policies. Higher investment income also contributed to earnings growth. 
Growth was partially offset by incremental expenses to support new business, and an increase to our catastrophe reinsurance premium. 
For renters and other, earnings were flat as growth in our property management channel was offset by softer affinity channel volumes. For the full year 2024, we expect Global Housing adjusted EBITDA, excluding reportable cats, to grow, driven by continued top line momentum in homeowners. 
In 2023, we benefited from $54 million of favorable prior year reserve development. Our expectation is to deliver growth in housing in 2024, overcoming the $54 million of favorable prior year reserve development, demonstrating the strength of the housing business. 
As Keith discussed, we will begin onboarding 1.8 million loans from Bank of America in the first quarter. When fully onboarded, we expect the placement rate of the book to be below Assurant's current portfolio average of 1.8%, which may impact overall placement rate trends. Due to implementation expenses, we do not expect these loans to contribute significantly to adjusted EBITDA in 2024. 
In terms of our cat reinsurance program, we have transitioned to a single April 1 placement date beginning this year. This greatly simplifies our placement process, while maintaining comprehensive coverage in the market. As this is a transition year, we placed virtually all of our 2024 program in January, with some smaller components remaining for the April placement. For our 2024 program, our per-event retention will increase to $150 million, aligning with a 1- and 5-year probable maximum loss or PML, as we continue to optimize risk and return. This is consistent with our 2023 program. 
We've expanded our risk protection to align with exposure by increasing our top end limit to protect against a 1 in 265 PML event. Over the past 2 years, we've continued to increase our capital protection, increasing the top end of our program from a 1 in 174 PML in 2022 and to a 1 in 225 PML in 2023 and now a 1 in 265 PML in 2024. 
Reflecting on these expected changes, we now estimate the appropriate cat load to be $155 million for 2024. 
Given the exit of our international property business, and the better market pricing as we leverage our strong reinsurer relationships, we expect a modest overall cost savings in 2024. We will provide further updates on the reinsurance program in May. 
Moving to Corporate. The fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA loss was $30 million, a $3 million year-over-year increase, mainly due to higher employee-related expenses. For 2024, we expect the corporate adjusted EBITDA loss to approximate $105 million. 
Turning to capital management. As we look forward to 2024, we expect to continue to generate significant capital and focus on maintaining balance and flexibility to support business growth. For the full year, we expect our businesses to generate meaningful cash flows, approximating 2/3 of segment adjusted EBITDA, including reportable cats. 
Cash flow expectations assume a continuation of the current macroeconomic environment and are subject to the growth of the businesses, investment portfolio performance and rating agency and regulatory requirements. 
We repurchased $200 million of common stock in 2023, and currently expect share repurchases to be in the range of $200 million to $300 million for 2024, which will depend on strategic M&A opportunities, market conditions and cat activity. As you can see, we are well positioned to deliver another year of growth in 2024 through the power of the Assurant franchise. 
I'll now turn the call back to Keith Demmings to share his views on performance as supported by our differentiated business model. Keith?
I'd like to take a few minutes to discuss why we believe that Assurant is so attractively valued today. Assurant is a powerful differentiated business with unique advantages that have outperformed over time. Our B2B2C business model throughout Lifestyle and Housing is different from other insurers and service-oriented companies. Not only do we operate in a unique, highly specialized and attractive markets, but we hold strong market positions and benefit from our scale. 
At our core, we provide specialty insurance solutions and fee-based services that are often deeply integrated with our large clients as we play an important role in delivering services to their end customers. Our alignment with industry leaders and market disruptors has helped us generate significant scale within our businesses. Our competitive advantages are further strengthened by our broad set of capabilities that allow us to innovate and execute for our partners and customers, enabling us to be flexible and agile. 
We have compelling and unique aspects of our business model that we believe create advantages. Our low capital intensity businesses allow us to grow efficiently, while generating additional capital for deployment. This is evident through our capital efficiency and strong cash generation of $3.5 billion over the last 5 years. 
Our risk profile is attractive. Earnings volatility is lowered by the risk-sharing structures within our business models, reducing the impacts of macroeconomic volatility. For example, throughout Connected Living and Global Auto, approximately 2/3 of total risk is reinsured or profit shared to our partners. Within Housing, our portfolio simplification efforts have focused on exiting more capital-intensive businesses, which has enhanced our risk profile. In addition, our robust catastrophe program substantially limits retained risk due to the low per occurrence retention level and high limit at the top end of the tower. 
Lastly, we're well positioned to adjust pricing to enable our targeted rates of return. Lender-placed is a prime example where our product has a built-in annual inflation guard feature to ensure policy pricing accounts for higher labor and materials cost as we've seen over the last 2 years. In Auto, most of our client deal structures share in the risk through reinsurance or profit shares. This creates close alignment between Assurant's underlying economics and our clients' financial results. Given this dynamic, we have the ability to adjust rates together with our clients to account for inflation impacts in the broader market. 
Over the past 18 months, we've successfully worked with our clients to put through prospective rate increases on new vehicle service contracts. 
Financial performance is paramount for Assurant. While growth may not always be linear, we've delivered average annual earnings and EPS growth of double digits since 2019, which has generated significant cash flow. Our 2024 outlook adds to this historical growth that we've delivered. 
To demonstrate the strength of our business model, we thought it would be useful to show how we performed versus a broad group of insurers on an adjusted earnings basis given the available data. Please keep in mind, this example is not to suggest a new peer group. We've selected the S&P 1500 P&C Index to highlight our performance against a credible and broad index that includes members we are often compared to, including specialty and P&C insurers. Over the past 5 years, we've grown double digits and outperformed the index. Our average annual adjusted earnings growth rate, excluding cats, up 12%, is almost double the index growth rate of 7% over the same time period. 
Including reportable cats, we've also outpaced the market, driving 10% average annual growth versus the index growth rate of 6%. We believe that our consistent ability to demonstrate strong, profitable growth and returns with lower volatility and required capital makes Assurant attractively valued. I'm confident that we'll continue to drive long-term profitable growth and create shareholder value. 
And with that, operator, please open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from Mark Hughes with Truist Securities.
Welcome Keith Meier. The BofA, congratulations on that. You say that the placement rate is going to be lower? Is the -- is that just because the placement rate on an underlying basis is lower? Or is that the actual premium and the covered homes are not being transferred over to you?
No. We're going to be picking up all of the loans and then all of the policies, but the placement rate on that particular block of business is just lower than the average. If you look at our current average, it's 1.8%. It will be south of that, just the nature of the loans and nature of the business. But to the more fundamental point, really excited about the opportunity and many years in the making and a huge congratulations to our lender-place team for doing an incredible job building a relationship and then obviously getting to this point is incredibly exciting and extremely validating.
Yes. And then on the Homeowners business, the reserve -- or favorable reserve development was that just because Hurricane Ian turned out better than expected? Or is there -- are you seeing a fundamental change in underlying trends? It seems like the non-cat losses have been very favorable lately. Is it something we should view as sustainable?
Mark, this is Keith Meier. So I think the first thing I would say is the reserve -- the positive reserve development was more in relation to the higher inflationary environment that we had previously. Now that, that's more settled, that's what's really been the change in the estimates that our team has made there. So I think that was more the driver than any other type of weather activity or any other type of experience. So I think that was the key there. 
And then in terms of your question on the quarter, the way to think about that is, if you take out the prior year -- the prior period development and over the whole year, we basically are at about a 40% non-cat loss ratio. It's about 1 point better than last year. And then if you think about looking at 2024, we would see our non-cat loss ratio to be somewhat level to what we're seeing in 2023. So that's probably the way to think about our views on the non-cat loss ratio.
And just 1 final thought. I mean modestly better in the quarter when you make the adjustment at 38%, but that's just normal seasonality, nothing we would really point to there, Mark.
Yes. And if I could squeeze in 1 more. The fee income in Lifestyle was up substantially, much more so than the devices service. What was going on there?
Yes. That's mainly the higher trade-in volumes that we have seen in the fourth quarter. So in the fourth quarter, we also saw the addition of to new programs. So 1 with 1 of the major OEMs and then also a program that cuts across several of our other clients, then that's also tempered a little bit by some of the promotional activity. But overall, we felt really good about the trade-in performance in the quarter.
Our next question is coming from John Barnidge with Piper Sandler.
My first question, I know there was an expense reduction program in December '22, with full savings emerging in '24. Are you able to talk about geography of those savings that's supposed to merge in '24? And how you view a run rate global housing expense ratio?
Sure. So I think the -- it's a blend of both employee actions as well as some of our facilities that we've been able to gain some efficiencies on as well. But I think in terms of the expense efficiencies for Housing, we had a really, really strong year, and this has really been the story over the last couple of years, especially a lot of our technology investments and the work that we've done through our digital programs and really driving on even better customer experience. 
When you look at our expense ratio year-over-year, we're down 6 points from 46 to about 40. And so that really has been a story of a lot of our technology investments that we've been making. And I think that's what's enabling us to -- if you think into 2024, we should be able to take a lot more expense leverage with the growth we had in Housing, but not increasing our expenses in a corresponding way. 
So really proud of the work that our teams have done there to not just lower the cost, but also create advantages in the market. And I think when you think about the customer experience that we've been delivering, I think that's a great example of why a client like Bank of America would want to do business with Assurant. So I think those investments are paying off in multiple ways.
And on Auto input costs, can you maybe talk about the ability to recoup the elevated Auto input costs through contracted actions for '24? I think you talked about improvement expected this year.
Yes. So maybe I'll take that. And I think what I would say is there's a handful of clients and deal structures where we're feeling the pressure on the underwriting results, which we've talked about. We've made significant rate adjustments over the last 18 months or so with all 5 of these clients and feel really good about how we're positioned. I mean the relationships are incredibly strong. To your point, our contracts are built with transparency. We've got very much aligned interest in terms of financial performance. So we put a lot of rate in. We'll continue to look at performance, obviously, monitor claims activity. 
I would say that we saw things level off in the fourth quarter, which is a good sign. We've stabilized severity in the business. And then based on the nature of these service contracts, it takes a little longer for it to earn through than when you think about what happened within the housing business. Those are annual policies. These are 3-, 4-, 5-, 6-year policies. So it's a little bit different from that perspective. But I would say we feel really well positioned and certainly see improvement in '24, and that should continue to flow through in '25 and beyond.
Our next question is coming from Tommy McJoynt with KBW.
There's a -- it sounds like there's a couple of moving pieces related to the mobile side. So you called out some upcoming investments in that space, and you also have the onboarding of Telstra in Australia. Are you going to quantify some of the figures around that in terms of the investment cost, the onboarding costs and then what the run rate, either revenue or earnings contribution from Telstra could be? We're just trying to think about after the next 12 months sort of what the earnings power of that Connected Living mobile device business might look like?
Yes, I'd probably offer a couple of thoughts. Obviously, it's a pretty exciting development. We're super proud of the team in Australia. And it's a great example of leveraging our capabilities and our global reach. It's going to roll out in phases. We expect to launch in the first quarter, and then there's a number of different phases to the rollout. So it will be, I would say, probably modestly EBITDA negative this year in terms of the investment to get that ramped up. Obviously, I would expect it to be significantly improved in -- certainly in '25 -- sorry, yes, in '25 over '24. 
In terms of the size and scale of investments, so one thing I would say, Tommy, there's quite a bit of investment going on within Assurant. Certainly, we talked about BofA. But even just on the Lifestyle and Connected Living side, Telstra is 1 example. Obviously, we're talking about it publicly, but there are also a lot of other investments that we're making, building out capabilities, and we're in many, many discussions with different clients, different prospects about rolling out new products, new services. So I would say we probably have more investment going on even beyond Telstra within Connected Living this year than we would in a normal average year. 
When we talk about mid-single-digit growth for Lifestyle, you could probably think about the investment putting pressure on that by a few points. So it would be more in the high-single-digit range if we weren't making some of these what are, for us, significant investments in the future.
Got it. I appreciate you quantifying some of those numbers. You also separately reported some pretty high net investment yields across the various business lines this quarter and even for the full year. Is there any upside to the net investment income from here? And what's the sensitivity of those various portfolios to potential rate cuts?
Yes, Tommy. So I think, one, in terms of our expectations for next year, we see investment income being relatively flat to slightly up. We -- you mentioned the higher results for this quarter. We had our real estate joint venture sales so that contributed. We don't think we'll have as high of real estate sales into next year, but we do think it should be relatively positive going into next year. Right now, we've -- our portfolio book yield is at 4.99%, so just under 5%. New money rates will be a little bit higher than that. And so we do expect, as the year goes on, of course, the Fed is expected to reduce rates through the year. So depending on the timing of some of those rate changes, those will be kind of offsetting the increase that you saw this year. 
So overall, we think it will -- we're in a pretty good place from an investment income standpoint, but probably slightly up for next year.
Yes. And maybe Tommy, just to add a little bit more color on how I'm thinking about that. I mean, when you look at the overall guide for the year, we're overcoming $54 million of PYD in Housing. And then we don't have material tailwinds on investment income. It might be modestly positive, but not like what we saw this year. So obviously, being able to deliver strong growth on top of those 2 factors we feel really good about, along with the investments that I mentioned earlier.
Our next question is coming from Brian Meredith with UBS.
A couple of them here. First one, I'm just curious, Keith, you mentioned that Japan was going to be relatively flat this year. I'm just curious kind of how we should think about that with respect to the contract kind of changes that are going on? Is that kind of ending in 2024? Are there still pressures there, and you expect some growth? And then also on that, kind of maybe you can kind of tell us what your kind of baseline macro assumption is in your kind of outlook for 2024?
Yes. Sure, Brian. And so starting with Japan, we mentioned the 4-year customer contracts that were running off and then the new contracts were evergreen. That's still going to be a bit of a pressure for us, not as much as '23, but there'll still be a pressure for us in '24. I think that is offset a little bit by some new structures and new programs that we have launched in Japan. So that's where that -- you'll see that moderating. And I think longer term, I feel even better about Japan, where, a few years ago, we only had a couple of relationships with the mobile carriers. Now you fast forward to today, we've got a business -- active business that we do with all of 4 top mobile operators.
And so in our business, it's not easy to win big clients. But when you can be an existing partner already, and then be able to grow that relationship from there, I think that puts us in a very good relationship in why we have a lot of optimism for the future of Japan. But with some of those new programs coming up, I think that's what allowed us to feel like we've gotten past some of those headwinds from before.
Yes. And we certainly stabilized Japan here. If we look at the last couple of quarters, Q3 and Q4 in terms of the overall financial performance, so we feel good about that. And I would say, as we look forward to '24, expect to see some modest improvement over time. And then to Keith's point, longer term, still an exciting market for us.
And in terms of the macroeconomic conditions, Brian, I don't think we're expecting anything significant. Obviously, we talked about interest rates and things like that. But beyond that, not -- there's nothing that's contemplated that's that significant.
Great. And then 1 other just quick 1 here. On the BofA deal, I'm just -- I'm assuming your kind of guidance for cat load for this year includes the BofA deal?
Yes, it does.
Our final question is coming from Grace Carter with Bank of America.
It does appear we did lose Grace. One moment, please. It does appear that Grace has dropped off the call, gentlemen.
No problem. All right. And that was the last question. Am I correct?
That is correct, sir.
Wonderful. Okay. Well, we will call it a wrap for today, and we'll look forward to speaking to everybody again in May. And then, obviously, in the meantime, please feel free to reach out to our IR team, who will be happy to answer any questions that everybody has. But thanks very much, and we'll talk soon.
Thank you.
Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. Please disconnect your lines at this time, and have a wonderful day.
================================================================================

Australia's Telstra falls after cutting annual earnings view 2024-02-15T00:32:49.000Z

By Adwitiya Srivastava
(Reuters) -Australia's top telecom firm Telstra Group trimmed the upper end of its operating earnings forecast for fiscal 2024 on Thursday even as it reported an 11% jump in its first-half profit due to strong performance across its businesses.
The company now expects underlying operating earnings for the year of A$8.2 billion ($5.32 billion) to A$8.3 billion, compared with the prior range of A$8.2 billion to A$8.4 billion, citing weak performance in its network applications and services (NAS) segment as business customers make fewer traditional voice calls.
The Melbourne-based firm's first-half profit jumped 11.4% to A$964 million, helped by strong performance in its mobile, fixed line and infrastructure segments. Its mobile business - the biggest revenue contributor - reported a 3.8% growth in sales to A$5.33 billion.
Shares of the company fell as much as 2.5% to A$3.890, their lowest level since mid-August last year. It was trading 1.5% lower as at 2343 GMT.
"It was a lacklustre half-year report from Telstra, with revenue and total income both growing by around 1% and a slightly disappointing outlook for full-year EBITDA," said Josh Gilbert, a market analyst at eToro.
"The market will likely focus on Telstra narrowing its guidance on full-year EBITDA, which has been attributed to its Network Application Services being a long way from where it needs to be."
The company declared an interim dividend of 9 Australian cents per share, up from 8.5 Australian cents a year earlier.
Telstra also announced a review of its products and services under its enterprise business, with a "clear set of immediate and significant actions to address performance".
The review is particularly focused on its NAS portfolio, which is "clearly a long way from where we need it to be", according to the firm, as the segment logs weak revenue across calling applications and professional services.
However, given the review it is undertaking, the company added it has a positive medium-term outlook for NAS and remained confident in its capabilities and market opportunities.
Telstra, which is focusing heavily on reducing its costs, said it continued to "expect to achieve the large majority of our cost out ambition by the end of FY25."
($1 = 1.5411 Australian dollars)
(Reporting by Adwitiya Srivastava and Shivangi Lahiri in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva and Jamie Freed)
================================================================================

Telstra Group (ASX:TLS) Will Pay A Larger Dividend Than Last Year At A$0.09 2024-02-17T23:03:31.000Z

 (
) dividend will be increasing from last year's payment of the same period to A$0.09 on 28th of March. This takes the annual payment to 4.7% of the current stock price, which is about average for the industry.
Unless the payments are sustainable, the dividend yield doesn't mean too much. Based on the last payment, Telstra Group's profits didn't cover the dividend, but the company was generating enough cash instead. Generally, we think cash is more important than accounting measures of profit, so with the cash flows easily covering the dividend, we don't think there is much reason to worry.
Looking forward, earnings per share is forecast to rise by 21.0% over the next year. If the dividend continues along recent trends, we estimate the payout ratio will be 74%, which would make us comfortable with the sustainability of the dividend, despite the levels currently being quite high.
The company has a long dividend track record, but it doesn't look great with cuts in the past. The annual payment during the last 10 years was A$0.28 in 2014, and the most recent fiscal year payment was A$0.18. The dividend has shrunk at around 4.3% a year during that period. Generally, we don't like to see a dividend that has been declining over time as this can degrade shareholders' returns and indicate that the company may be running into problems.
With a relatively unstable dividend, it's even more important to see if earnings per share is growing. It's not great to see that Telstra Group's earnings per share has fallen at approximately 7.7% per year over the past five years. If the company is making less over time, it naturally follows that it will also have to pay out less in dividends. Earnings are forecast to grow over the next 12 months and if that happens we could still be a little bit cautious until it becomes a pattern.
In summary, while it's always good to see the dividend being raised, we don't think Telstra Group's payments are rock solid. The company is generating plenty of cash, which could maintain the dividend for a while, but the track record hasn't been great. We would be a touch cautious of relying on this stock primarily for the dividend income.
Market movements attest to how highly valued a consistent dividend policy is compared to one which is more unpredictable. Still, investors need to consider a host of other factors, apart from dividend payments, when analysing a company. For example, we've picked out 
 that investors should know about before committing capital to this stock. If you are a dividend investor, you might also want to look at our 
 
================================================================================

Is The Market Rewarding Telstra Group Limited (ASX:TLS) With A Negative Sentiment As A Result Of Its Mixed Fundamentals? 2024-03-05T04:22:42.000Z

Telstra Group (ASX:TLS) has had a rough month with its share price down 6.6%. We, however decided to study the company's financials to determine if they have got anything to do with the price decline. Long-term fundamentals are usually what drive market outcomes, so it's worth paying close attention. Particularly, we will be paying attention to 
 ROE today.
Return on equity or ROE is an important factor to be considered by a shareholder because it tells them how effectively their capital is being reinvested. In short, ROE shows the profit each dollar generates with respect to its shareholder investments.
Return on Equity = Net Profit (from continuing operations) ÷ Shareholders' Equity
So, based on the above formula, the ROE for Telstra Group is:
12% = AU$2.2b ÷ AU$18b (Based on the trailing twelve months to December 2023).
The 'return' is the yearly profit. One way to conceptualize this is that for each A$1 of shareholders' capital it has, the company made A$0.12 in profit.
Thus far, we have learned that ROE measures how efficiently a company is generating its profits. Based on how much of its profits the company chooses to reinvest or "retain", we are then able to evaluate a company's future ability to generate profits. Assuming everything else remains unchanged, the higher the ROE and profit retention, the higher the growth rate of a company compared to companies that don't necessarily bear these characteristics.
At first glance, Telstra Group seems to have a decent ROE. Especially when compared to the industry average of 5.2% the company's ROE looks pretty impressive. As you might expect, the 6.4% net income decline reported by Telstra Group is a bit of a surprise. Based on this, we feel that there might be other reasons which haven't been discussed so far in this article that could be hampering the company's growth. These include low earnings retention or poor allocation of capital.
However, when we compared Telstra Group's growth with the industry we found that while the company's earnings have been shrinking, the industry has seen an earnings growth of 20% in the same period. This is quite worrisome.
Earnings growth is an important metric to consider when valuing a stock. The investor should try to establish if the expected growth or decline in earnings, whichever the case may be, is priced in. This then helps them determine if the stock is placed for a bright or bleak future. Has the market priced in the future outlook for TLS? You can find out in
With a high three-year median payout ratio of 94% (implying that 6.0% of the profits are retained), most of Telstra Group's profits are being paid to shareholders, which explains the company's shrinking earnings. With only a little being reinvested into the business, earnings growth would obviously be low or non-existent. To know the 2 risks we have identified for Telstra Group visit our 
Additionally, Telstra Group has paid dividends over a period of at least ten years, which means that the company's management is determined to pay dividends even if it means little to no earnings growth. Upon studying the latest analysts' consensus data, we found that the company is expected to keep paying out approximately 94% of its profits over the next three years. However, Telstra Group's ROE is predicted to rise to 16% despite there being no anticipated change in its payout ratio.
On the whole, we feel that the performance shown by Telstra Group can be open to many interpretations. While the company does have a high rate of return, its low earnings retention is probably what's hampering its earnings growth. That being so, the latest industry analyst forecasts show that the analysts are expecting to see a huge improvement in the company's earnings growth rate. Are these analysts expectations based on the broad expectations for the industry, or on the company's fundamentals?
 
================================================================================

Q4 2023 Talphera Inc Earnings Call 2024-03-07T10:53:07.000Z

Raffi Asadorian; Chief Financial Officer; Talphera Inc
Vince Angotti; CEO; Talphera Inc
Pamela Palmer; Chief Medical Officer & Co-Founder; Talphera Inc
Thomas Yip; Analyst; H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC
Welcome to the Telfer era Fourth Quarter 2023 financial results conference call. This call is being webcasted live via the Events page of the Investors section of healthcare's website, triple w. dot telkom.com. This call is the property of tall fair and any recording, reproduction or transmission of this call without the express written consent of Telstra is strictly prohibited. As a reminder, this webcast is being recorded. You may listen to a replay of this webcast by going to the Investors section of Telstra's website.
 I would now like to turn the call over to Raffi Ecuadorian Solzira Pharmaceuticals' Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.
Thank you for joining us on the call today. This afternoon, we announced our fourth quarter 2023 financial results and associated business plan business updates in a press release. This press release can be found within the Investors section of our website.
 With me today are Vince Angotti, our Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Pam Palmer, healthcare as founder and Chief Medical Officer.
 Before we begin, I want to remind listeners that during this call, we will likely make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties regarding the operations and future results of Tessera, please refer to our press release in addition to the Company's periodic current and annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.SEC.gov for a discussion of the risks associated with such forward-looking statements. These documents can also be found on our website within the Investors section of Telstra.com. I'll now hand the call over to Vince.
Thank you, Raffi, and good afternoon to everyone, and welcome to the First Call. We're having as Telstra throughout 2023. We focused on our objective of repositioning the Company around a new portfolio of assets with an immediate priority on iAd and longer-term strategy on the broader thermostat pipeline and other pipeline assets. As these assets have the traits to drive our vision to support health care providers and optimizing patient outcomes and medically supervised settings.
 2023 was a productive year in achieving this objective culminating in our ultimate rebranding to TAO fairer, signifying the completion of this repositioning. With this transition, we believe we successfully capitalized Telstra to achieve our 2024 goal to advance nine to a pre-market application submission or PMA. Today, we'll number one highlight the activities completed in 2023 that have positioned Tao fairer for success over the next 12 to 18 months to identify the important upcoming milestones in 2024. And then three update you on the status are not yet registrational studies as for 2023 in April, we closed the transaction with Loral to divest the studio to a partner with experience in manufacturing and commercializing controlled substances. This transaction allowed us to complete the reduction in our annual studio related operating expenses by approximately $14 million and refocused these resources on the development of my ad. With this transaction, we earn royalties of 15% on commercial sales, 75% on sales to the Department of Defense and up to $116.5 million in potential milestone payments.
 We are confident that Alere is the right partner and we expect to begin commercializing 2024 after they complete all their work around restructuring and insourcing the supply chain in October, another pivotal success was achieved after several months of working on the NIOBE study protocol and discussing modifications with the FDA. We received an approval of our IDE from the FDA. That's allowed us to start preparations for the single registrational study that we expect to begin enrolling in the coming weeks. Clinical and regulatory teams have designed a 166 patient study as agreed to with the FDA that many of our KOLs Blease should be quickly enrolled. Remember the famous that is an approved and long-standing product in Japan and South Korea for anticoagulation and other indications with a wealth of safety and efficacy information. Our new thermostat product candidate Niagara, has received breakthrough designation from the FDA. We believe all of this bodes well for a successful clinical trial. This year. Dr. Palmer will provide an overview of the study and its status later in the call.
 Another key achievement in 2023 was the December publication in the Journal of renal failure of our market research with 150 physicians in the US regarding the practices of anticoagulation of the extra capacity or CRT. circuit, many of the authors of this study are in the process of becoming investigators in our clinical trial that provided us with valuable information and better understanding how physicians are currently using anticoagulants during CRRT. and the potential issues with current standards of care. We hosted two authors of this study and a KOL panel discussion in December, which provided interesting insights into the market and clinical practices at two leading academic institutions. We believe that the family status approved in the US would be an important addition to the market for anticoagulation during CRT., particularly given the disadvantages raised in this publication of the two anticoagulants currently used, those being heparin and citrate, if approved by the FDA, NIOBE would be the only regional anticoagulant approved in the US for the extra portal circuit. After achieving these 2023 objectives to reposition the Company, we were prepared to proceed with corporate rebranding to ensure all stakeholders were aware of our new vision with a focus on and I add in the near term. Accordingly, in January, we rebranded the company to Tom Farrell. The new name was derived in part from Talisman, meaning a strong leader and reflects the new pharmaceutical era for the Company. This signals the beginning of our newly transformed company, and we're excited about the momentum we have gained and the positive feedback we've received from the many investors we've met with over the last couple of months soon after the rebranding. Importantly, we announced the completion of two financing events focused on ensuring we have sufficient capital to get to a potential approval of NIOBE and the second quarter of next year.
 The first was a nondilutive royalty financing closed with Xoma royalty, where we partially monetized our studio royalties and milestones. We received $8 million at closing from Xoma in exchange for the royalties and milestones being paid by Laura, once Xoma receives a specified amount of payments will share equally in the Department of Defense royalties and the milestone payments. Separately, we closed an equity financing from two of our existing investors not to Hala and Rosalind. The equity financing provides $18 million and total fund structured over two closings. We received $6 million at the first closing and another $10 million of committed capital will be received at the second closing upon the announcement of positive net flows trial data by September 30th of this year and an additional $2 million of tougher our stock trades above $0.92 following that announcement. To be clear, this is committed capital once the milestones are met. In addition to the milestone-based warrants from the July 2023 financing be exercised. An additional $14.4 million of capital would be injected into the company. Concurrent with the equity investment, we were delighted that RB Jane from not the whole agreed to be on our Board of Directors, which adds further depth to our experienced board that you may have seen. We announced last week that the Board has decided to reduce the total number of directors to seven from the 10 we previously had. This reduction is consistent with best governance practices of other companies, our size accordingly, Howie Rosen rectify and Pam Palmer voluntarily resigned from the Board. I'd like to expressly thank Howie, Rosen & Rick, the family for all their valuable contributions over the years on our Board and of course, look forward to continuing work with Dr. Palmer, he's our Chief Medical Officer.
 Finally, before handing the call over to Dr. Palmer, I'd like to remind everyone of all the upcoming milestones expected over the next 18 months. We anticipate our first patient in the naive study to be enrolled in the coming weeks. Once patients begin enrolling, we'll have a better overall sense of the timing. But based on feedback received from the various KOLs, we expect this study to enroll quickly after 32 patients have been enrolled. There will be a planned interim safety analysis. Top line data readout from the completed study would then be expected by the end of the third quarter with a PMA submission planned for the end of the year with a six month FDA statutory time line. This would put us on track for a potential PMA approval by the end of the second quarter of 2025 with that, I'll hand the call over to Dr. Palmer, who will provide an update on the metro CRT. or Niagara clinical study. Pam?
Thank you, Vince, and good afternoon, to everyone today, I'll provide a brief update on the NFRO. study status. As we've been eager to get the study started, most of our clinical sites undergoing contracting with us or large academic institutions across the country. And we've experienced delays in administrative efforts to have our contracts and budgets in place to begin enrolling patients. We had expected to have our first patient enrolled already, but our CRO has confirmed that they are seeing similar administrative delays with institutions across many other studies as well. We do not expect to have any significant delays in enrolling patients once each site is set to start. As Vince mentioned, the feedback provided by KOLs is that they believe once they are set up to initiate the study enrolling should be fairly rapid given the relatively short study period and broad inclusion criteria for the trial, patients are considered completers after only 72 hours on CRT. and all primary and secondary endpoints are assessed during this period. This said, we expect the first patient to be enrolled in the coming weeks at our first site as we have recently completed the site initiation visits with an additional site initiation visit another institution scheduled for next week. As a reminder, our clinical study will include 166 patients with half receiving an infusion of NIAD. into the CRT circuit. While the other half will receive an infusion of saline as placebo into the circuit, the primary endpoint will be the CRRT. post filter activated clotting time over the first 24 hours with a key secondary endpoint, including the same measurement over 72 hours additional secondary endpoints evaluate filter WideSpan number of transfusions and dialysis efficacy. There are a number of reasons we are confident in the successful study outcome. First and foremost being the three decades of new famous that safe and effective clinical use in Japan and South Korea. Secondly, an independent meta-analysis evaluating almost 3,000 patients published in 2022 to analyzing the use of the families that as an anticoagulant for the exit of Oreo circuit provides insightful data on mortality, bleeding risk and filter life, all of which were favorable for November stat as compared to conventional anticoagulant therapy or in the absence of an anticoagulant.
 Thirdly, is the net proceeds are our key straightforward study design in which we are comparing a proven powerful anticoagulant to saline and measuring and activated clotting time as a primary endpoint use of saline as a comparator in our study is ethical. As we know from our recent published market research that nearly a third of CRRT. patients received no anticoagulant KOLs have informed us that the main reason for not using an anticoagulant is that the current available options heparin and citrate carry risks that many patients cannot tolerate. Heparin is a systemic anticoagulant with a half-life of up to three hours. Therefore, it's circulating back into the patient from the circuit and should not be used in patients at risk of bleeding. By comparison, the thermostat as an ultra short half-life of only eight minutes reducing the risk of systemically anticoagulated, the patient various citrate formulations used either off-label or under an EUA, our complex to administer and have their own complications, including hypo calcemia, citrate toxicity and ventricular arrhythmias. While we do not have enough time here today to discuss all the disadvantages of citrate and heparin. Suffice it to say, we believe that in the family that if approved, will be an important addition to the current anticoagulants being used more information on the disadvantages of heparin and citrate as well as the risk of using no anticoagulant is detailed in the recently published market research study in the journal renal failure, as well as by the KOL panel discussion that we hosted in December of last year, both the publication and a webcast recording of the KOL panel can be found on our website. I will now turn the call back over to Vince.
Thanks Pam, we've previously discussed the peak sales potential of Niagara of $200 million, which is split fairly evenly between CRT. in the hospital setting and Intermet chemo dialysis use in the outpatient setting. We will initially by concentrating on CRT in the hospital. As this is the focus of the net proceeds of our key clinical study. We're currently working on additional market research to inform potential updates to the market opportunity, pricing and market penetration potential of Knighthead. Our peak sales potential assumes only a 19.5% market penetration in the hospital CRT. setting. Over feedback received from our KOLs indicates we may be underestimating our market penetration potential. We'll share any updates needed to our estimated peak sales following the completion of our additional market research.
 I now hand the call over to Roger to take you through the details of the financial results.
Events through 2023 was clearly a year of transformation for Telstra, and we're excited about the prospects of our lead asset, and I add it as well as the longer term potential within the thermostat portfolio. We are thankful for the support from our investors, including non to Hala and Roslyn who participated in the January 2024 for equity financing, with the objective to ensure we have sufficient capital to reach a potential Q2 2025 PMA approval of nine the Company friendly structure of this equity financing, majority of which requires the investors to fund the Company at the second closing, should we achieved a pivotal trial milestone regardless of the stock price at the time demonstrates the investors' conviction and belief in the Company.
 Cash and cash equivalents were $9.4 million at the end of the quarter or $23.4 million on a pro forma basis. If you include the $16 million of initial proceeds we received from the January financing, we continued to remain vigilant over our cash expenditures for the year. Our combined R&D and SG&A expenses, excluding noncash stock compensation for the year were $15.8 million, slightly better than the guidance range of $16 million to $20 million we provided for the quarter. The combined R&D and SG&A expenses, excluding $0.3 million of non-cash stock compensation, was $4.3 million. Our estimated full year 2024, combined R&D and SG&A expenses, excluding non-cash stock related expense, are expected to range from $21 million to $23 million. Revenues for the fourth quarter of $0.3 million were generated from royalties on the sales of the studio, principally from sales to the Department of Defense on which we earn a 75% royalty from Laura as stated earlier, we will continue to account for these royalties and milestones as revenues. However, there will be no cash flow impact going forward until Xoma received their specified return and we begin sharing equally in the DoD royalties and the milestones. Given the historically variable nature of these revenues, we do not plan to provide any guidance on the expected time frame on when these royalties and milestones would begin to generate cash flow to Telstra.
 I'll now turn the call back over to Vince.
Thank you, Rafi. I'd now like to open the line for any questions you may have. Operator?
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question and answer session. Should you have a question, please press star one on your touchtone phone, you will hear a prompt that your hand has been raised. Should you wish to decline from the polling process, please press star two using a speakerphone, please lift the handset before pressing any keys.
 Your first question comes from Ed Arce of H.CC. Wainwright.
Good afternoon, everyone. This is Thomas with. Hi everyone. This is Thomas Yip asking a couple of questions for ad tech in particular, questions on. So first, good to see the PMA submission is still on target by year end 2024. I'm just trying to tease out, what you know is as we are close to the end of Q1, should we expect the first patient who can grow with by the end of the quarter reset within the coming weeks? And also, I believe top line beta is still on target and sometime in third quarter of this year?
Yes. So I'll answer the first part of that so again, reiterating what you mentioned, our target remains by the end of the year to have the PMA submission occurred. We've already completed the SIVs SIV or site initiation visit with one of the sites, another one scheduled for next week, and we'll monitor the enrollment from that point moving forward. Dr. Palmer might be able to give you some additional color as it relates to discussions with the sites and the availability of patients moving forward. And really what we just heard from the site were visiting next week.
Yes. So the sites are really excited to move forward there as frustrated, I think by these administrative delays, as we've been on the you know, there have even said to me.
 Hey, Pam, I had two patients that we would have qualified for the study, half of, hey, they see these patients that they want to get in and we're just trying to get these SIPs the site initiation visits done so they can quickly started enrolling on it is competitive enrollment. So there is no cap on any site. That means the first up and running will get to enroll more patients than the last. So we're really trying to move this forward and keep it on the timeline.
Yes, I think in direct answer to your question by the end of Q1. That's certainly our goal, Thomas on and with the feedback. Hopefully, that's what we'll achieve here in short order.
Got it. And then on perhaps a follow up on that for a component. Can you discuss the nature of these administrative delays? You mentioned, you know, these delays and all of the science or certainly not just some of the sites have they been chosen?
Yes. Well, no, it's actually kind of across the board and what we've been hearing these large academic centers on really had an exodus of administrative personnel. You know, during the past few years on a lot of working from home. They've been the numbers have been cut such that we are dealing with fewer folks in the contracting office in the budgeting office. And so when you put in your you're guiding on contracts and budgets, you're sort of queuing up for their attention. And so we are banging the drum and making phone calls and e-mailing investor kits such as we can, but some things are slowly starting to move. So we're excited but know that they are almost all on the same time line. So now we are starting to see these SIVs are being scheduled. And we're super excited because once we do meet with the team and we're doing these SIVs on were the caliber of researchers that we're dealing with is very high. They're patient our populations of qualify. They're seeing these patients every single day in their ICUs. And so we just really feel like once we can get these sites kicked off, it'll be a nice rapid enrolling.
Pam, can you comment quick? We used to do words are and shortening of SIVs site initiation visits. So we just started completing and have more now scheduled. What does the site initiation?
Yes, the site initiation visits. So the last thing you do and you have to originally do I know confidentiality agreements, you have to do site feasibility questionnaires, you have to then negotiate a contract. You've got to negotiate a budget. All of that is what's taken awhile. The very last thing you do before enrollment is a site initiation visit. And when you're actually on site looking at the pharmacy, looking at their, you know, data entry and things like that. So it really shows you there's a lot of paperwork and there's it just takes time to get through. But once you get through it and get up and running. We're excited what we're hearing from the sites. I think David's role is fairly quickly.
Then just to add a little additional color on the site initiation visits, we've already started completing some of the additional ones really in the process of scheduling. They happen within a day or these aren't extended visits. It's less than a day visit at site by the CRO. Just finishing up the final details. I hope that gives you some insight, Thomas on that.
Yes, definitely that bankable for four for the added details from and then from do we start up on the you mentioned on the call or maybe events that there will be an interim analysis from macro after verifications have been those will just be a blinded safety analysis and what can we expect from? But after this analysis.
Here is the DSMB data safety monitoring board and what they do is there there are value? Yes, it is on actually unblinded because they are selected on to look at the data to make sure there's no safety signals that's very typical for a new chemical entity. That's not been approved yet in the US before. Although it's got a great 30 years of great history in Japan, South Korea is coming over here for the first time. So the first 32 patients, which will be 16 active 15 placebo in general are going to be evaluated by this and unblinded committee and they give thumbs up or thumbs down to continue the study.
Okay, understood. Thanks for clarity and some perhaps one question for Raffi. And so our cash runway up to second quarter next year, and I think you saw that increased $16 million pro forma cash influx during the first quarter 2020 for that right?
Yes. Just I need to correct my what I said in the prepared remarks, actually $14 million on that first closing plus the royalty financing?
 That's $16 million. So I correct that there. So yes, that includes that plus the additional $12 million that we're expecting once we announce the pivotal trial milestone or the top line data and which we're planning for in the third quarter. It does not include I mean, obviously, as we mentioned in the prepared remarks on top of that? And should the should those July 2023 warrants be exercised?
 There's additional capital that comes into the company. It, that's autonomous.
Okay. Thank you.
 Thank everyone for taking the questions and looking forward to the first patient enrollment and Got it.
Yes, on for operator, additional questions.
Thanks, Thomas.
There are no further questions at this time. I would hand over the call to Vince Angotti for closing comments.
We feel had dropped right before adjuvant for comments. There's clearly a high interest in the study and execution thereof and Dr. Palmer mentioned a component called a competitive enrollment start from. Can you just give a quick elaboration on on competitive enrollment?
Yes. Basically, it's on no site is capped and so the first site that gets this IV and gets the first patient in that has much longer period of time to enroll patients and so on, it's an incentive for all the sites to get up and running as quickly as they can. Otherwise, they will be limited in the number of patients they can enroll as their 14th.
I think a pretty important feature of the study design and the contracts that we have with the sites.
 So with that as the final Q&A, I want to thank everyone for joining us today. As the new Telstra and also for your continued support.
 We certainly remain focused on driving long-term shareholder value as a newly positioned company with a focus on executing this natural study to make Knight available to the health care providers moving forward, we look forward to sharing future developments with you, and thank you again for your continued interest and support in our company.
 Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.
================================================================================

Investors in Telstra Group (ASX:TLS) have seen notable returns of 43% over the past five years 2024-03-21T21:05:44.000Z

The main point of investing for the long term is to make money. But more than that, you probably want to see it rise more than the market average. Unfortunately for shareholders, while the 
 (
) share price is up 15% in the last five years, that's less than the market return. Unfortunately the share price is down 9.5% in the last year.
So let's investigate and see if the longer term performance of the company has been in line with the underlying business' progress.
While markets are a powerful pricing mechanism, share prices reflect investor sentiment, not just underlying business performance. One flawed but reasonable way to assess how sentiment around a company has changed is to compare the earnings per share (EPS) with the share price.
Telstra Group's earnings per share are down 7.7% per year, despite strong share price performance over five years.
Since the EPS are down strongly, it seems highly unlikely market participants are looking at EPS to value the company. Given that EPS is down, but the share price is up, it seems clear the market is focussed on other aspects of the business, at the moment.
We note that the dividend is higher than it was previously - always nice to see. It could be that the company is reaching maturity and dividend investors are buying for the yield.
You can see how earnings and revenue have changed over time in the image below (click on the chart to see the exact values).
We consider it positive that insiders have made significant purchases in the last year. Having said that, most people consider earnings and revenue growth trends to be a more meaningful guide to the business. If you are thinking of buying or selling Telstra Group stock, you should check out this 
 
.
It is important to consider the total shareholder return, as well as the share price return, for any given stock. Whereas the share price return only reflects the change in the share price, the TSR includes the value of dividends (assuming they were reinvested) and the benefit of any discounted capital raising or spin-off. So for companies that pay a generous dividend, the TSR is often a lot higher than the share price return. As it happens, Telstra Group's TSR for the last 5 years was 43%, which exceeds the share price return mentioned earlier. And there's no prize for guessing that the dividend payments largely explain the divergence!
Telstra Group shareholders are down 5.4% for the year (even including dividends), but the market itself is up 15%. Even the share prices of good stocks drop sometimes, but we want to see improvements in the fundamental metrics of a business, before getting too interested. On the bright side, long term shareholders have made money, with a gain of 7% per year over half a decade. It could be that the recent sell-off is an opportunity, so it may be worth checking the fundamental data for signs of a long term growth trend. While it is well worth considering the different impacts that market conditions can have on the share price, there are other factors that are even more important. For example, we've discovered 
 that you should be aware of before investing here.
Telstra Group is not the only stock insiders are buying. So take a peek at this 
 
 
================================================================================

10 Best Long Term ASX Stocks To Invest In 2024-03-30T15:49:19.000Z

In this piece, we will take a look at the ten best long term ASX stocks to invest in. If you want to skip our overview of the Australian stock market, then you can take a look at the 
Australia is one of the 
 and stands shoulder to shoulder with the developed countries of Europe and North America when it comes to progress and quality of life. However, since most of the world's business flows through America, the U.S. stock market is considerably bigger. These facts also hold true for the European Euronext stock exchanges and the London Stock Exchange, especially since the latter is another hub for global finance.
The Australian economy is quite advanced but also relies on traditional sectors such as mining. When it comes to analyzing the best ASX stocks, and particularly those that might be suitable for the long term, it is important to see which industries dominate Australia, what companies are operating in them, and what the future outlook for these sectors might be. On this front, data from the Reserve Bank of Australia can be of some help. Its 
 shows that the five biggest industries in Australia are mining, health and education, finance, construction, and manufacturing. Percentage wise, they account for 14.3%, 12.8%, 7.4%, 7.1%, and 5.7% of the Australian economy, respectively.
Building on this, the next thing to ask when thinking about the 
 is whether the current global macroeconomic environment is favorable for some of the biggest sectors of the Australian economy. Well, starting from the biggest Australian industry i.e. mining, this is one of the most sensitive businesses to global economic health. Since 27% of Australian exports go to China, and another 17.5% are headed to Japan, Asian economic health is a key determinant of Asian stock performance.
If you've been following Insider Monkey and have signed up for our newsletter, you'll know that the 
. In fact, even the International Monetary Fund (IMF) hasn't held back and called the economy a 'drag' on global output - a sentiment that comes after ill-fated analyst optimism at the start of 2023 that had seen many analysts opine that a robust recovery in China would prove to be a blessing for commodities and oil in particular. So, since Chinese growth has been lackluster, it's time to see how ASX mining stocks have fared amidst this.
Some notable ASX mining stocks, which trade exclusively on the Australian stock exchange and also through their American Depository Receipts (ADRs) on U.S. stock exchanges such as the NYSE are BHP Group Limited (NYSE:BHP), Rio Tinto Group (NYSE:RIO), Fortescue Ltd (ASX:FMG.AX), and South32 Limited (ASX:S32.AX). Year to date, their performance is -15.05%, -14.17%, -12.56%, and 10.98%, respectively. Looking at this, it's clear that all these stocks are down year to date and they were under pressure earlier this year when the Australian central bank's meeting minutes revealed that officials had actually considered an additional interest rate hike since they were uncertain that the beast of inflation had been fully tamed.
However, while the biggest Australian industry might be struggling, ASX stocks for the second biggest sector namely health and education have done much better. A highly developed education system and a corruption free society have allowed Australian healthcare companies to hold their ground against their global counterparts. Some of the biggest healthcare ASX stocks are CSL Limited (ASX:CSL.AX), Cochlear Limited (ASX:COH.AX), ResMed Inc. (ASX:RMD.AX), and Sonic Healthcare Limited (ASX:SHL.AX).
Year to date, their performance is -0.13%, 12.16%, 18.75%, and -8.69%. Looking at this, it appears that healthcare ASX stocks have done much better than their mining counterparts, and even better than Australia's premier education consulting firm IDP Education Limited (ASX:IEL.AX) whose shares are down 9.59% year to date amidst a rating downgrade by Bell Porter and changes in Canadian visa rules to scrutinize unscrupulous applicants that seek to work in the country instead of studying there.
Since healthcare is a hot ASX stock sector these days, here's what the management of Mesoblast Limited (NASDAQ:
), an Australian regenerative medicine company had to say during the 
:
With these details in mind, let's take a look at some best long term ASX stocks. A couple of notable picks are Aristocrat Leisure Limited (ASX:ALL.AX), Telstra Group Limited (ASX:TLS.AX), and BHP Group Limited (NYSE:
).
Marine Deswarte/Shutterstock.com
To make our list of the best ASX stocks for the long term, we ranked the forty most valuable ASX stocks by their average analyst share price target upside. All average share price target data was sourced from Yahoo Finance.
QBE Insurance Group Limited (ASX:QBE.AX) is a sizeable Australian insurance company headquartered in Sydney, New South Wales. The firm provides property, casualty, health, and other insurance products. It's also one of the highest rated stocks on our list, as QBE Insurance Group Limited (ASX:QBE.AX)'s shares are rated Strong Buy on average. The average share price target is A$18.89, pricing in a 4.19% upside over the latest closing share price. The firm's CEO also gave a rather interesting talk in February 2024 when he shared that due to natural disasters, reinsurance companies were often wary of doing business in Australia.
Along with Telstra Group Limited (ASX:TLS.AX), Aristocrat Leisure Limited (ASX:ALL.AX),and BHP Group Limited (NYSE:BHP), QBE Insurance Group Limited (ASX:QBE.AX) is a top long term ASX stock according to analysts.
Sonic Healthcare Limited (ASX:SHL.AX) is the first Australian healthcare company on our list, a segment of the ASX that has performed quite well as of late even as mining giants and other ASX stocks feel the brunt of high interest rates and an economic slowdown in the major Asian economies of China and Japan. The firm is also headquartered in Sydney, and it has more than forty thousand employees on its roster. Sonic Healthcare Limited (ASX:SHL.AX) is a medical devices and diagnostics services provider that caters primarily to the needs of hospitals, health centers, and their patients. Its shares are rated Buy on average but teeter on the edge of Hold.
As Australia's economy continues to struggle, Sonic Healthcare Limited (ASX:SHL.AX) made an important announcement in March 2024 when it revealed that it had expanded its global network. This came in the form of an acquisition of a Swiss laboratory for a $132 million price tag.
CSL Limited (ASX:CSL.AX) is another major Australian healthcare company. Given the way that ASX healthcare stocks have performed this year, it's unsurprising that it's yet another healthcare stock to make it to our list of the best Australian stocks to buy for the long term. CSL Limited (ASX:CSL.AX)'s shares are rated Buy on average, and its average share price target of A$302 prices in a 5.23% upside. Like Sonic Healthcare, the firm has also been busy on the global front as of late. CSL Limited (ASX:CSL.AX) scored a win in March 2024 when Canadian healthcare regulators approved its medicine for iron deficiency. At the same time, management is also hoping to capture some of the U.S. market for influenza vaccines this season.
Washington H. Soul Pattinson and Company Limited (ASX:SOL.AX) is a small Australian financial services firm headquartered in Sydney, Australia. It is one of the oldest companies on our list and was set up in 1872. The firm invests in publicly and private companies through the stock market and also through private equity. Only one analyst share price target is available for Washington H. Soul Pattinson and Company Limited (ASX:SOL.AX), and it prices in a 5.92% upside to the shares.
Santos Limited (ASX:STO.AX) is an Australian oil and gas exploration and production company headquartered in Adelaide, Australia. It has operations in Australia, the U.S., Timor-Leste, and Papua New Guinea. The shares are rated Buy on average, and the average analyst share price target is A$8.38. Santos Limited (ASX:STO.AX) has been relatively quiet on the news front as of late, after its talks with Australian energy giant Woodside collapsed earlier this year.
Aristocrat Leisure Limited (ASX:ALL.AX), Santos Limited (ASX:STO.AX), Telstra Group Limited (ASX:TLS.AX), and BHP Group Limited (NYSE:BHP) are some ASX stocks with high upside.
 
Suggested Articles:
Disclosure. None. 
 was initially published on Insider Monkey.
================================================================================

Telstra Group (ASX:TLS) Might Have The Makings Of A Multi-Bagger 2024-04-08T02:19:41.000Z

Finding a business that has the potential to grow substantially is not easy, but it is possible if we look at a few key financial metrics. Firstly, we'll want to see a proven 
 on capital employed (ROCE) that is increasing, and secondly, an expanding 
 of capital employed. Basically this means that a company has profitable initiatives that it can continue to reinvest in, which is a trait of a compounding machine. So when we looked at 
 (
) and its trend of ROCE, we really liked what we saw.
Just to clarify if you're unsure, ROCE is a metric for evaluating how much pre-tax income (in percentage terms) a company earns on the capital invested in its business. Analysts use this formula to calculate it for Telstra Group:
0.10 = AU$3.6b ÷ (AU$46b - AU$10.0b) 
.
Thus, 
 In absolute terms, that's a satisfactory return, but compared to the Telecom industry average of 7.3% it's much better.
In the above chart we have measured Telstra Group's prior ROCE against its prior performance, but the future is arguably more important. If you're interested, you can view the analysts predictions in our 
 
.
Telstra Group is showing promise given that its ROCE is trending up and to the right. More specifically, while the company has kept capital employed relatively flat over the last five years, the ROCE has climbed 25% in that same time. Basically the business is generating higher returns from the same amount of capital and that is proof that there are improvements in the company's efficiencies. The company is doing well in that sense, and it's worth investigating what the management team has planned for long term growth prospects.
To bring it all together, Telstra Group has done well to increase the returns it's generating from its capital employed. Since the stock has returned a solid 44% to shareholders over the last five years, it's fair to say investors are beginning to recognize these changes. With that being said, we still think the promising fundamentals mean the company deserves some further due diligence.
One more thing to note, we've identified 
and understanding these should be part of your investment process.
For those who like to invest in 
 check out this 
 
 
================================================================================

Telstra Group Limited's (ASX:TLS) Intrinsic Value Is Potentially 51% Above Its Share Price 2024-04-24T20:17:04.000Z

Today we will run through one way of estimating the intrinsic value of Telstra Group Limited (
) by estimating the company's future cash flows and discounting them to their present value. Our analysis will employ the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. There's really not all that much to it, even though it might appear quite complex.
Remember though, that there are many ways to estimate a company's value, and a DCF is just one method. If you want to learn more about discounted cash flow, the rationale behind this calculation can be read in detail in the 
.
We use what is known as a 2-stage model, which simply means we have two different periods of growth rates for the company's cash flows. Generally the first stage is higher growth, and the second stage is a lower growth phase. To start off with, we need to estimate the next ten years of cash flows. Where possible we use analyst estimates, but when these aren't available we extrapolate the previous free cash flow (FCF) from the last estimate or reported value. We assume companies with shrinking free cash flow will slow their rate of shrinkage, and that companies with growing free cash flow will see their growth rate slow, over this period. We do this to reflect that growth tends to slow more in the early years than it does in later years.
A DCF is all about the idea that a dollar in the future is less valuable than a dollar today, and so the sum of these future cash flows is then discounted to today's value:
 = AU$19b
We now need to calculate the Terminal Value, which accounts for all the future cash flows after this ten year period. The Gordon Growth formula is used to calculate Terminal Value at a future annual growth rate equal to the 5-year average of the 10-year government bond yield of 2.2%. We discount the terminal cash flows to today's value at a cost of equity of 5.8%.
= FCF
 × (1 + g) ÷ (r – g) = AU$2.8b× (1 + 2.2%) ÷ (5.8%– 2.2%) = AU$78b
= TV / (1 + r)
= AU$78b÷ ( 1 + 5.8%)
= AU$44b
The total value, or equity value, is then the sum of the present value of the future cash flows, which in this case is AU$64b. In the final step we divide the equity value by the number of shares outstanding. Compared to the current share price of AU$3.7, the company appears quite good value at a 34% discount to where the stock price trades currently. Remember though, that this is just an approximate valuation, and like any complex formula - garbage in, garbage out.
Now the most important inputs to a discounted cash flow are the discount rate, and of course, the actual cash flows. Part of investing is coming up with your own evaluation of a company's future performance, so try the calculation yourself and check your own assumptions. The DCF also does not consider the possible cyclicality of an industry, or a company's future capital requirements, so it does not give a full picture of a company's potential performance. Given that we are looking at Telstra Group as potential shareholders, the cost of equity is used as the discount rate, rather than the cost of capital (or weighted average cost of capital, WACC) which accounts for debt. In this calculation we've used 5.8%, which is based on a levered beta of 0.800. Beta is a measure of a stock's volatility, compared to the market as a whole. We get our beta from the industry average beta of globally comparable companies, with an imposed limit between 0.8 and 2.0, which is a reasonable range for a stable business.
Valuation is only one side of the coin in terms of building your investment thesis, and it shouldn't be the only metric you look at when researching a company. It's not possible to obtain a foolproof valuation with a DCF model. Instead the best use for a DCF model is to test certain assumptions and theories to see if they would lead to the company being undervalued or overvalued. For instance, if the terminal value growth rate is adjusted slightly, it can dramatically alter the overall result. Can we work out why the company is trading at a discount to intrinsic value? For Telstra Group, we've put together three fundamental factors you should explore:
PS. Simply Wall St updates its DCF calculation for every Australian stock every day, so if you want to find the intrinsic value of any other stock just 
.
 
================================================================================

Q1 2024 Assurant Inc Earnings Call 2024-05-09T01:50:50.000Z

Keith Roland Meier; Executive VP & CFO; Assurant, Inc.
Keith Warner Demmings; President, CEO & Director; Assurant, Inc.
Sean Moshier; VP of IR; Assurant, Inc.
Brian Robert Meredith; MD, Financials Research Sector Head & Global Insurance Strategist; UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Mark Douglas Hughes; MD; Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division
Thomas Patrick McJoynt-Griffith; Director; Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Welcome to Assurant's First Quarter 2024 Conference Call and Webcast. (Operator Instructions) 
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Sean Moshier, Vice President of Investor Relations. You may begin.
Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. We look forward to discussing our first quarter 2024 results with you today. Joining me for Assurant's conference call are Keith Demmings, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Keith Meier, our Chief Financial Officer. 
Yesterday, after the market closed, we issued a news release announcing our results for the first quarter 2024. The release and corresponding financial supplement are available on assurant.com. Also on our website is a slide presentation for our webcast participants.
Some of the statements made today are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are based upon our historical performance and current expectations and subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these statements.
Additional information regarding these factors can be found in the earnings release, presentation and financial supplement on our website as well as in our SEC reports. During today's call, we will refer to non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe are important in evaluating the company's performance. For more details on these measures, the most comparable GAAP measures and a reconciliation of the 2, please refer to the news release and supporting materials.
We'll start today's call with remarks before moving into Q&A. I will now turn the call over to Keith Demmings.
Thanks, Sean, and good morning, everyone. Our first quarter results represent a strong start to 2024, reflecting the position of strength from which Assurant continues to operate. 
Adjusted EBITDA grew 31% year-over-year to $384 million, and adjusted EPS grew 42% year-over-year, both excluding reportable catastrophes. Our first quarter results were driven by the continued strength of our Global Housing segment as well as growth in Global Lifestyle. Our ability to continue to drive financial performance and operational excellence has supported strong cash flow generation and a solid capital position. 
Before reviewing the highlights across our business segments, I'd like to take a moment to reiterate how our unique and differentiated business model has led us to consistently deliver financial results. Assurant holds market leadership positions across a variety of attractive specialized markets where we benefit from both scale and deep integration with our B2B2C client base. 
Our competitive advantages across our businesses have allowed us to be flexible and agile in executing for our partners and for end consumers. Cost savings from targeted actions, such as our previously announced restructuring plan and ongoing technology innovation, including digital first and artificial intelligence have supported reinvestment in businesses, where we have leadership positions. These high-return initiatives have enhanced our capabilities and supported new partnerships, laying the groundwork for continued growth.
The ultimate driver of our success is our people. In March, Assurant was recognized by Ethisphere as one of the world's most ethical companies in 2024. Operating ethically is foundational to protecting our clients' brands across the globe as well as our own. This recognition is a testament to the thousands of Assurant employees who champion our values every day. 
Collectively, our unique advantages have led to long-term profitable growth and shareholder value creation. We've continued to drive outperformance versus the broader P&C market, as evidenced by our long-term results compared to the S&P Composite 1500 P&C index. Since 2019, Assurant has delivered double-digit adjusted earnings growth including and excluding cats, outperforming the broader P&C index. 
Now turning to the quarter, I'd like to share highlights across our business segments. Global Lifestyle delivered adjusted EBITDA of $208 million in the first quarter of 2024. This reflects a year-over-year increase of 4% or 5% on a constant currency basis. Which is in line with our full year growth expectation. Growth was led by our Connected Living business, which delivered double-digit adjusted EBITDA growth in the first quarter. 
To support growth, we're continuing to make several important investments in new partnerships, including for recently announced new launches such as Telstra, Australia's largest mobile carrier, where we completed the initial launch of several offerings. We are currently offering protection, upgrade and trade-in to Telstra's postpaid subscriber base. 
Additionally, we recently completed a multiyear extension of our partnership with Spectrum Mobile, demonstrating the strength of our relationship. The expanded relationship includes the launch of 2 new mobile programs. The first of the 2 programs, the new anytime upgrade benefit, which is now included in the Spectrum Mobile Unlimited Plus data plan at no extra cost to consumers allows new and existing customers to upgrade their phones whenever they want. 
The second program is the new Spectrum mobile repair and replacement plan, which offers customers device protection and is supported by our dynamic fulfillment and claims management capabilities. These innovative new offerings with Spectrum Mobile are the result of our long-standing partnership and reflect our ongoing commitment to deliver market first solutions to meet the needs of end consumers. 
During the quarter, we also enhanced our global capabilities. For example, in Europe, we acquired iSmash, a leading independent tech repair brand in the United Kingdom, offering express drop in repair services for smartphones, tablets, laptops with nearly 40 retail locations. This acquisition further scales our walk-in repair offerings and is a prime example of the investments we're making globally to win new business and enhance existing relationships. 
Moving to global automotive. Similar to others in the industry, first quarter results reflected persistent inflation impacts to vehicle parts and labor repair costs. We've continued to take actions to address elevated inflation, including implementing additional rate increases in the first quarter that build upon those taken over the past 18 months, while also strengthening and enhancing our claims adjudication process. 
For 2024, we expect auto earnings to be flat. Investment income growth and disciplined expense management efforts are expected to be offset by continued claims inflation. We remain confident in the long-term growth prospects of our auto business. Over the next several years, we expect rate actions to provide a tailwind for the business with the pace and timing of earnings growth dependent on broader market trends. 
Now let's discuss Global Housing, which drove our first quarter outperformance. Global Housing earnings grew significantly in the first quarter, up nearly 75%, excluding reportable cats. Following an extraordinary 2023, housing's first quarter performance reinforces the power of our unique business model, which is highly differentiated versus the broader P&C market. Housing's competitive advantages have led to a compelling shift in its financial return over the past 2 years, delivering strong financial performance with attractive returns. We have several distinct advantages in Global Housing. 
First, we have strong market positions in our core housing businesses. Specifically in Lender-Placed, we have strong relationships with the largest U.S. banks and mortgage servicers, including our new client, Bank of America, which we began to onboard in the first quarter. Second, as seen over the past 18 to 24 months in our Lender-Placed business, we've been able to achieve rate adequacy quickly through the built-in annual inflation guard product feature designed to adjust with building and materials costs and normal course state rate filings. Third, our scale and focus on operational efficiencies have created meaningful expense leverage, which we will continue to benefit from going forward. 
Lastly, our Lender-Placed business provides a countercyclical hedge in the event of potential broader housing market weakness. While we would not expect tailwinds to be as significant as in prior recessions, we still expect policy placement increases if the housing market goes through a cyclical downturn. 
Similarly, in our renters and other business, we operate as a market leader across our affinity and property management company channels. The business has an attractive capital-light financial profile with limited catastrophe exposure and remains well positioned for long-term growth as we continue to innovate with our partners and capitalize on secular tailwinds within the rental market. 
During the quarter, we increased gross written premiums by over 15%, driven by strong growth in our PMC channel. We've continued to leverage enterprise-wide capabilities to improve our customer experience and create value for our clients. For example, we leveraged our premium technical support capabilities from Connected Living to help us launch Assurant Tech Pro for the multifamily housing channel, providing residents access to technical troubleshooting services, which is a first in the industry. 
Turning to our enterprise outlook. For 2024, we continue to expect Enterprise adjusted EBITDA to grow by mid-single digits, excluding cats. Based on our strong first quarter performance within Global Housing, which included $22 million of favorable prior period reserve development, our 2024 results are trending toward the higher end of the mid-single-digit outlook. We now anticipate global housing will lead our enterprise growth. 
In Global Lifestyle, our full year outlook remains unchanged, driven by growth in Connected Living which is partially offset by incremental investments to support long-term growth. We continue to monitor global macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, foreign exchange and interest rate levels as well as new business investments. 
Looking at earnings per share, we now expect adjusted EPS growth to approximate adjusted EBITDA growth, reflecting lower expected depreciation expense as well as higher earnings within Global Housing. 
I'll now turn it over to Keith Meier to review our first quarter results and 2024 outlook in further detail.
Thanks, Keith, and good morning, everyone. With our strong first quarter performance, we continue to focus on driving long-term shareholder value with thoughtful and decisive actions to continue to grow and outperform. To achieve this, we are committed to a deep understanding of our global partners and their end consumers' needs, executing on the opportunities identified as well as disciplined capital management to enable long-term growth. 
Now let's review the details of our first quarter results. In the first quarter, adjusted EBITDA grew 31% to $384 million and adjusted EPS increased by 42% to $4.97, both excluding reportable catastrophes. From a capital perspective, we generated $254 million of segment dividends in the first quarter, ending the quarter with $622 million of holding company liquidity, up from $606 million at year-end. 
Our strong capital position allowed us to return $77 million to shareholders in the quarter, including $40 million of share repurchases. In addition, we repurchased $10 million of shares between April 1 and May 3. 
Turning to our business segments. Let's begin with Global Lifestyle. For the quarter, adjusted EBITDA grew 4% to $208 million or 5% on a constant currency basis. Year-over-year growth was driven by strong performance in Connected Living, particularly in the U.S., which was partially offset by lower results in Global Automotive. 
In Connected Living, earnings increased 14% or $16 million, primarily driven by continued momentum in our U.S. mobile protection programs and higher investment income. Results were partially offset by investments in new capabilities and client partnerships. In the U.S. Connected Living growth also benefited from modest improvements in loss experience within extended service contracts, resulting from rate actions taken over the last 18 months to offset higher claim severities from inflation. Trade-in results were flat as higher margins and contributions from new U.S. programs were partially offset by a decline in carrier volumes, including impacts from lower promotional activity. 
International Connected Living results included a $7 million favorable onetime extended service contract client benefit in Japan. Excluding this item, international results were stable on a constant currency basis, consistent with the trends from the end of 2023. Foreign exchange remains a headwind, impacting Lifestyle's adjusted EBITDA growth by 1 percentage point in the quarter. 
In Global Automotive, first quarter adjusted EBITDA declined 9% or $7 million, driven by higher claims costs due to persistent inflation impacts as well as the normalization of select ancillary products. The impacts of inflation continue to be felt throughout the auto industry as indicated in the March Consumer Price Index, where motor vehicle repair costs rose nearly 12% year-over-year and accelerated over the quarter. Elevated claims costs were partially offset by higher investment income. 
Turning to net earned premiums, fees and other income. Lifestyle grew by $148 million or 7% and Connected Living increased 11%, benefiting from contributions from new trade-in programs and North American mobile protection programs. Growth from Global Automotive net earned premiums fees and other income was 3%, which was primarily driven by prior period sales of vehicle service contracts. 
For full year 2024, we continue to expect Global Lifestyle's adjusted EBITDA to grow, driven by Connected Living. We expect growth in Connected Living to be led by the continued expansion of our U.S. business. 
In Global Auto, we expect adjusted EBITDA to be flat as higher investment income is offset by continued loss pressure from inflation. Prospective rate actions taken over the past 18 months are expected to drive improvement over time, depending on the timing and pace of claims inflation impacts. 
Investments related to new clients and programs will temper lifestyle growth in 2024, but will be a critical driver in the strengthening of our business over the long term. We continue to monitor foreign exchange impacts, broader macroeconomic conditions and interest rates, which may impact the pace and timing of growth. 
As we enter the second quarter, we expect our sequential adjusted EBITDA trend to be impacted by the absence of the onetime client benefit and seasonally lower mobile trading volumes, both in Connected Living. 
Moving to Global Housing. First quarter adjusted EBITDA was $193 million, which included $13 million of reportable catastrophes. Excluding reportable cats, adjusted EBITDA increased by 74% or $88 million to $205 million. Over half of the increase was driven by improving non-cat loss ratios from moderating claims trends and higher average premiums. 
A portion of the claims improvement was related to a $16 million favorable year-over-year net impact to prior period reserve development. This was comprised of a $22 million reserve reduction in the current quarter compared to a $6 million reserve reduction in the first quarter of 2023. 
The remainder of the adjusted EBITDA increase was mainly driven by continued top line growth in homeowners and an increase in the number of in-force policies, lower catastrophe reinsurance costs and higher investment income. For renters and other, earnings increased from growth in our property management channel. 
As Keith mentioned, expense leverage throughout housing continues to be a strong differentiator as our technology investments and innovations are enabling a superior customer experience. This has played a critical role in our outperformance. Given the strong first quarter performance, we expect Global Housing's full year 2024 adjusted EBITDA growth, excluding cats, to lead our overall enterprise growth. We anticipate growth will be driven by favorable non-cat loss experience, continued top line momentum in homeowners and lower catastrophe reinsurance costs. 
Over the course of 2024, our lender-placed business is expected to be impacted by ongoing client portfolio movements. This includes the addition of multiple client portfolios, including the onboarding of Bank of America as well as expected offboarding impacts from the sale of a client to another party. Given the unique composition of each portfolio, these movements are expected to impact tracked loans and placement rate from quarter-to-quarter. 
However, policies in force, a key driver of earnings is expected to grow overall for 2024. As we turn to the second quarter, please keep in mind the following: first, we had $22 million of first quarter prior year reserve development. Second, we expect normalized catastrophe reinsurance costs following lower costs in the first quarter, which were impacted by timing differences related to the program transition to a single placement as well as favorable 2023 exposure true-ups. 
Beginning in the second quarter, we expect quarterly reinsurance premiums to be modestly above $50 million, which is an increase from the $34 million in the first quarter. And lastly, the second quarter tends to be an elevated period for non-cat loss experience. 
Next, I wanted to summarize the placement of our 2024 catastrophe reinsurance program which has now transitioned to a single April 1 placement date. We are pleased with our increased coverage at attractive terms, including cost savings realized in this year's placement. 2024 catastrophe reinsurance premiums for the total program are estimated to be approximately $190 million, a reduction in comparison to $207 million in 2023. As previously communicated, our per event retention increased to $150 million, aligning with a 1-in5-year probable maximum loss or PML. 
Our main U.S. program will provide nearly $1.5 billion in loss coverage in excess of our retention, protecting Assurant and its policyholders against the PML of approximately 1-in-265-year storm, an increase above the 2023 limit aligned to a 1-in-225-year PML. Overall, this year's placement was diversified and supported by the strength of our relationships with 40-plus highly rated reinsurers. 
Moving to corporate. The first quarter adjusted EBITDA loss was $30 million, a $5 million year-over-year increase, mainly due to higher enterprise growth initiatives. We now expect the 2024 corporate adjusted EBITDA loss to approximate $110 million, consistent with 2023. 
Turning to capital management. We generated significant deployable capital in the first quarter, upstreaming $254 million in segment dividends. For 2024, we expect our businesses to continue to generate meaningful cash flow. Cash conversion to the holding company is expected to approximate 2/3 of segment adjusted EBITDA, including reportable catastrophes. Cash flow expectations assume a continuation of the current macroeconomic environment and are subject to the growth of the businesses, investment portfolio performance and rating agency and regulatory requirements. 
As we look forward to the remainder of the year, we continue to be focused on maintaining balance and flexibility to support new business growth and return capital to shareholders. From a share repurchase perspective, we continue to expect to be in the range of $200 million to $300 million, which will depend on strategic M&A opportunities, market conditions, and cat activity. Through the strength of our differentiated business model and given our first quarter results, we are increasingly confident in achieving our 2024 financial objectives. 
Our strong capital position provides us with the necessary resources to support business growth and shareholder value over the long term. And with that, operator, please open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Mark Hughes with Truist Securities.
In Connected Living, your EBITDA growth, 14%, super strong. When you look at your covered device count, it's relatively stable, trade-ins were stable, but you're getting strong top line growth. How long can you continue to push the top line and profitability in an environment where covered devices seem to be relatively steady.
Yes. No, it's a great question. I think we're really pleased with certainly how Connected Living started the year, largely driven by the strength of the U.S. Connected Living business overall. And we've talked about this in the past, but we've had double-digit growth in Connected Living for probably 7 or so years pretty consistently. 
As I look at the first quarter results, domestic Connected Living again was up double digits, high single last year. So I think we feel incredibly well positioned. We did see a little bit of softness in the devices covered count. A little bit of that is in Japan, which we've talked about, although our margins have been quite stable in that market. A little bit in the prepaid side as well. But the bulk of our U.S. postpaid business, which drives the lion's share of the economics, clients are performing incredibly well and feel really well positioned longer term.
Your inflation guard in the homeowners business. When does that get updated? And what does it look like for this go around?
Yes. It will get updated July 1. It will be a very modest adjustment, roughly 1%. I think last year was a little north of 3%, and then the year before, it was in the low to mid-teens. So fairly normalized level, I think, as we look forward this year.
And then the non-cat loss experience in housing was a good -- how would you judge the weather of this quarter? It sounds like you're benefiting from rates, better claims trends. How much of a weather impact do you think there was in Q1?
Yes. I think if you set aside the development, which we called out at $22 million in the quarter, the non-cat loss ratio was just under 39%. I'd say that was relatively in line with our expectations, in line with what we would expect for the full year around that loss ratio factor. 
So I would say certainly, we've seen normalized severity levels as inflation has come down. And then to your point, obviously, a lot of impact in the business from rate, but then a tremendous amount of leverage in terms of the operating expenses, both with scale, but also the efforts that we've made to continue to drive automation. And Keith, did you want to add anything?
Yes, sure. I think a good way to think about that, Mark, as well, is Keith mentioned 39% non-cat loss ratio, we have an expense ratio of about 38%, combined is 77%. If you add in some cat coverage, you're probably in that mid- to high 80s that we talk about on a normal basis. So I think it was pretty well in that line, maybe a little bit better than that.
Our next question comes from the line with Brian Meredith with UBS.
A couple of questions here. First, I'm just curious, onboarding expenses for Bank of America and maybe Telstra. Are those largely complete at this point? Or are we going to see some more of that going forward? Your expenses were quite below where I was expecting this quarter.
Yes. So on Bank of America, we've been ramping them up this -- over the last quarter. And so those loans are now being tracked. And then in the second and third quarter, those policies should be coming online. And then by the end of the third quarter, we should be fully up and running on Bank of America. So I think the outlook for Bank of America should be improving as we go through the year. 
And then with Telstra, we just launched the rest of the program -- the main part of the program earlier this month. And so we went through a lot of investment there. There's still more to come for Telstra, but we're in a really good place, getting Telstra launched in terms of the main part of the program.
Maybe just add a little bit of color as well, Brian, in terms of the question about ongoing investments. So if I'm thinking about global Connected Living in the first quarter, I'd probably size $5 million of incremental investments in long-term growth in the quarter. We continue to think that will be 2% to 3% impact to the overall growth for the full year.
So think about that trend line continuing as we move forward. And then it's just a question of at what pace and urgency do we deploy some of the solutions with not just the clients that we've talked about publicly, but a number of clients and prospects that we're actively working on in real time, which we'll disclose more on later in the year.
Great. And my second question related to Global Auto. I know historically, you said it was a couple of clients maybe that were really the issues. I'm wondering if it's become more pervasive. And is there anything that you're kind of thinking about doing with contracts to maybe mitigate some of this inflationary aspects here going forward?
Yes. So it's that -- first part of your question, it's unchanged. So the clients that we've been monitoring and working on based on the deal structures, their profit share type arrangements, if losses go over 100%, it creates short-term pressure in our P&L and then we look to recover that contractually with rate adjustments.
So it isn't more pervasive than it was. But obviously, there's a little bit of elevation in terms of the severity around parts and labor costs in the auto sector, which I think everyone is seeing. I do feel -- continue to feel real good about our long-term opportunity in auto. Clients are working with us incredibly well. We've taken a number of rate increases over the last 18, 20 months. We took more rate adjustments in the first quarter. We'll do more in the second quarter.
So really, it's about getting this business to the right spot over the long term. We talk about relative stability in the P&L at auto in '24 and then progressively getting better as we enter '25.
(Operator Instructions) We have another question, comes from the line of Tommy McJoynt with KBW.
The first one, can you talk about as the Bank of America portfolio comes on board and perhaps also considering any other service or client additions or deletions. Is there anything that we should expect in the placement rate or the average insured values that would be different than what we should just see in the broader economy in terms of tracking mortgage delinquencies and home price appreciation, anything different that's kind of changing about the nature of your tracked portfolio?
Yes. So I think I mentioned in the opening remarks where we've got various changes that go on within our portfolio. Obviously, Bank of America, we've talked about. We have another client that was added by another one of our clients. So that was a positive. We also have another client that was acquired by a third party. So those loans will be coming off. 
So I think there's going to be a little bit of ups and downs. Some of those have lower placement rates than the average. Some of them have higher placement rates. But when you think about between now and the end of the year, overall, we should be up in our policy counts when you net those kind of movements within the quarters?
Yes. And I think in a relatively stable placement rate as we exit the year, Tommy, and it may bounce around a little bit. But to Keith's point, policy counts at the end of the year should be higher than where we sit today.
Okay. Got it. That's good color. And then switching over, can you talk about the current level and perhaps your expectations for trade-in programs and promotional activity from the carriers? And just whether or not you think that could be a swing factor in the bottom line of Connected Living as we proceed through the year?
Yes. I think we've done a really good job maintaining overall margins in the trade-in side of the business. You think about the first quarter, obviously, devices serviced were down. But as we signaled, margins are quite stable, and we're making up some of that with additional volume with new clients as well.
So I think we feel really good about how we're positioned. And to your point, the promotional activity was relatively light in the quarter. I think clients were focused on other things within their portfolios and moving customers to higher tier premium rate plans et cetera, and driving upgrades wasn't a huge priority in the market, but we still performed quite well financially. So I think we're well positioned. 
And the dynamic environment, particularly with the big 3 mobile operators is hard to predict. And obviously, we're well positioned should that activity pick up here in the second quarter and beyond. So it's hard to predict right now, Tommy, but I think we feel really well positioned.
Okay. Got it. And then last one, I think I may have missed it during the remarks. I think I heard you say that the reinsurance costs decreased. I didn't catch -- well, first off, could you repeat those numbers? And then secondly, did you mention like what is happening to the per event retention if there were changes to that?
Yes, sure. So well, I guess, first of all, we're really pleased with the outcome of moving to the single placement. It's really simplified the program. I think it was well received by the reinsurers. We mentioned that the cost of the program was down year-over-year. So we're expecting it to be approximately $190 million this year versus $207 million from last year. 
And overall, our per event retention stayed at 1-in-5 probable maximum loss. So that was up from $125 million. The top end of the program, we actually increased from $1.4 million to $1.63 million. So moving it from 1-in-225-year event. So a lot of good protection and lower cost. 
So I think overall, moving the program to the 04/01 placement date was, I think, a very favorable move for us. And then also, just in general, in terms of the rates, the rates were favorable online given the reinsurance market. And I think that was a reflection of the quality of our book and our overall performance.
There are no more further questions at this time.
Wonderful. Well, thanks, everybody, and we'll look forward to the next quarter call. And please reach out to the IR team if you have any questions. Have a great day. Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference. Please disconnect your lines at this time, and have a wonderful day.
================================================================================

Assurant Inc (AIZ) Q1 2024 Earnings Call Transcript Highlights: Robust Growth and Strategic ... 2024-05-09T07:03:02.000Z

Release Date: May 08, 2024
For the complete transcript of the earnings call, please refer to the 
.
: In Connected Living, your EBITDA growth, 14%, super strong. When you look at your covered device count, it's relatively stable, trade-ins were stable, but you're getting strong top line growth. How long can you continue to push the top line and profitability in an environment where covered devices seem to be relatively steady. 
: Keith Warner Demmings, President, CEO & Director of Assurant, Inc. - We're really pleased with how Connected Living started the year, largely driven by the strength of the U.S. Connected Living business overall. We've had double-digit growth in Connected Living for about 7 years consistently. Domestic Connected Living was up double digits, high single last year. We feel incredibly well positioned despite some softness in the devices covered count.
: Your inflation guard in the homeowners business. When does that get updated? And what does it look like for this go around? 
: Keith Warner Demmings, President, CEO & Director of Assurant, Inc. - It will get updated July 1. It will be a very modest adjustment, roughly 1%. Last year was a little north of 3%, and the year before, it was in the low to mid-teens. So fairly normalized level, I think, as we look forward this year.
: And then the non-cat loss experience in housing was good -- how would you judge the weather of this quarter? It sounds like you're benefiting from rates, better claims trends. How much of a weather impact do you think there was in Q1? 
: Keith Warner Demmings, President, CEO & Director of Assurant, Inc. - Setting aside the development, the non-cat loss ratio was just under 39%, in line with our expectations for the full year. We've seen normalized severity levels as inflation has come down. A lot of impact in the business from rate, but also a tremendous amount of leverage in terms of operating expenses, both with scale and efforts to drive automation.
: Great. And my second question related to Global Auto. I know historically, you said it was a couple of clients maybe that were really the issues. I'm wondering if it's become more pervasive. And is there anything that you're kind of thinking about doing with contracts to maybe mitigate some of this inflationary aspects here going forward? 
: Keith Warner Demmings, President, CEO & Director of Assurant, Inc. - It's unchanged. The clients that we've been monitoring and working on based on the deal structures, their profit share type arrangements, if losses go over 100%, it creates short-term pressure in our P&L and then we look to recover that contractually with rate adjustments. It isn't more pervasive than it was. But obviously, there's a little bit of elevation in terms of the severity around parts and labor costs in the auto sector, which I think everyone is seeing. We've taken a number of rate increases over the last 18, 20 months. We took more rate adjustments in the first quarter. We'll do more in the second quarter.
: The first one, can you talk about as the Bank of America portfolio comes on board and perhaps also considering any other service or client additions or deletions. Is there anything that we should expect in the placement rate or the average insured values that would be different than what we should just see in the broader economy in terms of tracking mortgage delinquencies and home price appreciation, anything different that's kind of changing about the nature of your tracked portfolio? 
: Keith Roland Meier, Executive VP & CFO of Assurant, Inc. - We've got various changes that go on within our portfolio. Obviously, Bank of America, we've talked about. We have another client that was added by another one of our clients. So that was a positive. We also have another client that was acquired by a third party. So those loans will be coming off. There's going to be a little bit of ups and downs. Some of those have lower placement rates than the average. Some of them have higher placement rates. But when you think about between now and the end of the year, overall, we should be up in our policy counts when you net those kind of movements within the quarters.
For the complete transcript of the earnings call, please refer to the 
.
This article first appeared on 
.
================================================================================

With EPS Growth And More, Telstra Group (ASX:TLS) Makes An Interesting Case 2024-05-11T22:17:25.000Z

The excitement of investing in a company that can reverse its fortunes is a big draw for some speculators, so even companies that have no revenue, no profit, and a record of falling short, can manage to find investors. But the reality is that when a company loses money each year, for long enough, its investors will usually take their share of those losses. Loss-making companies are always racing against time to reach financial sustainability, so investors in these companies may be taking on more risk than they should.
Despite being in the age of tech-stock blue-sky investing, many investors still adopt a more traditional strategy; buying shares in profitable companies like 
 (
). While this doesn't necessarily speak to whether it's undervalued, the profitability of the business is enough to warrant some appreciation - especially if its growing.
If a company can keep growing earnings per share (EPS) long enough, its share price should eventually follow. That makes EPS growth an attractive quality for any company. Over the last three years, Telstra Group has grown EPS by 5.6% per year. This may not be setting the world alight, but it does show that EPS is on the upwards trend.
Careful consideration of revenue growth and earnings before interest and taxation (EBIT) margins can help inform a view on the sustainability of the recent profit growth. EBIT margins for Telstra Group remained fairly unchanged over the last year, however the company should be pleased to report its revenue growth for the period of 3.4% to AU$23b. That's progress.
You can take a look at the company's revenue and earnings growth trend, in the chart below. For finer detail, click on the image.
In investing, as in life, the future matters more than the past. So why not check out this 
 
?
Investors are always searching for a vote of confidence in the companies they hold and insider buying is one of the key indicators for optimism on the market. That's because insider buying often indicates that those closest to the company have confidence that the share price will perform well. However, small purchases are not always indicative of conviction, and insiders don't always get it right.
Not only did Telstra Group insiders refrain from selling stock during the year, but they also spent AU$241k buying it. This is a good look for the company as it paints an optimistic picture for the future. It is also worth noting that it was Non-Executive Director Maxine Brenner who made the biggest single purchase, worth AU$116k, paying AU$4.02 per share.
The good news, alongside the insider buying, for Telstra Group bulls is that insiders (collectively) have a meaningful investment in the stock. Indeed, they hold AU$34m worth of its stock. That shows significant buy-in, and may indicate conviction in the business strategy. While their ownership only accounts for 0.08%, this is still a considerable amount at stake to encourage the business to maintain a strategy that will deliver value to shareholders.
While insiders are apparently happy to hold and accumulate shares, that is just part of the big picture. That's because Telstra Group's CEO, Vicki Brady, is paid at a relatively modest level when compared to other CEOs for companies of this size. The median total compensation for CEOs of companies similar in size to Telstra Group, with market caps over AU$12b, is around AU$6.1m.
The Telstra Group CEO received AU$5.2m in compensation for the year ending June 2023. That is actually below the median for CEO's of similarly sized companies. While the level of CEO compensation shouldn't be the biggest factor in how the company is viewed, modest remuneration is a positive, because it suggests that the board keeps shareholder interests in mind. It can also be a sign of a culture of integrity, in a broader sense.
One important encouraging feature of Telstra Group is that it is growing profits. In addition, insiders have been busy adding to their sizeable holdings in the company. That should do plenty in prompting budding investors to undertake a bit more research - or even adding the company to their watchlists. Even so, be aware that 
, you should know about...
Keen growth investors love to see insider buying. Thankfully, Telstra Group isn't the only one. You can see a 
.
 
================================================================================

Telstra to axe up to 2,800 jobs as competition stiffens amid high inflation 2024-05-21T06:57:51.000Z

By Himanshi Akhand and Adwitiya Srivastava
(Reuters) -Telstra will be slashing over a tenth of its workforce by 2024 end and stopping its traditional annual inflation-linked price adjustments for mobile plans, the Australian telecom firm said on Tuesday as it grapples with stiff competition.
The country's largest telecommunications firm will be slashing up to 2,800 jobs from its enterprise workforce, as it moves to streamline operations and cut costs as part of a review of its network applications and services business.
Telstra had more than 31,000 employees as of August 2023 according to its annual report.
The company said it expected to record one-off restructuring costs of A$200 million ($133.36 million) to A$250 million in fiscal 2024 and 2025.
The firm is also updating customer terms for its postpaid mobile plans to get rid of the inflation-linked annual price review.
"We will not be making a CPI-linked annual price change to postpaid mobile prices in July 2024," CEO Vicki Brady said.
"This is occurring within a dynamic environment, with an evolving competitive landscape, rapid advances in technology, changing customer needs, and the ongoing inflationary pressures facing all businesses."
"The removal of CPI-linked price increases in mobile is a surprise to us," Jarden analysts said, adding that the move might be incrementally negative for mobile industry returns in the short term.
A starting point to remove 2,800 roles as part of an ongoing review is "clearly significant", they noted.
Telstra also stated that by taking these steps, it hopes to reduce its costs for T25 - an operating strategy that the company adopted in 2021 - by A$350 million by the end of fiscal 2025.
The firm reiterated its earnings forecast for 2024 and said it expected underlying earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization for 2025 between A$8.4 billion and $8.7 billion.
($1 = 1.4997 Australian dollars)
(Reporting by Himanshi Akhand in Bengaluru; Editing by Shailesh Kuber, Sherry Jacob-Phillips and Rashmi Aich)
================================================================================

Telstra to Cut Jobs to Save Costs Amid Enterprise Overhaul 2024-05-20T23:43:00.000Z

The Australian telecommunications company plans to cut 2,800 jobs as part of a continuing strategic review, helping cut $233.4 million in costs.
================================================================================

TPG Telecom, Vocus revive $4.1 billion fibre sale talks 2024-08-05T00:45:23.000Z

By Rishav Chatterjee
(Reuters) -TPG Telecom has revived discussions with Macquarie-backed Vocus Group for the sale of some of its non-mobile fibre assets, the Australian telecom operator said on Monday, nine months after ending previous talks over the same divestment.
Australian data services company Vocus Group in August 2023 bid for some of the non-mobile fibre assets of TPG Telecom, one of the country's largest telecom operators, valuing the assets at about A$6.3 billion ($4.10 billion).
Vocus, backed by Macquarie Group and pension fund Aware Super, abandoned the deal to buy TPG's fibre network in November though as the parties failed to agree on commercial terms.
Vocus had made a non-binding offer to acquire certain Enterprise, Government and Wholesale (EGW) assets and associated fixed infrastructure assets, including wholesale broadband business Vision Network.
The EGW unit contributed around 18% to TPG's total fiscal 2022 revenue of A$5.42 billion, while Vision Network currently has a network of more than 410,000 homes in six major Australian capitals and three regional Victorian cities, according to its website.
TPG, whose shares advanced 2.5%, said on Monday the renewed discussions were non-exclusive and there was no certainty a deal would result.
"Investors will be encouraged to hear that a deal could again be in the works from a balance-sheet perspective," said Tim Waterer, chief market analyst, KCM Trade.
The offer comes after TPG Telecom's asset swap deal with bigger rival Telstra Group - which involves Telstra buying spectrum and transmission towers from TPG, and the latter selling 4G and 5G coverage using Telstra infrastructure - was blocked amid strong regulatory opposition.
"TPG will be hoping for a better outcome on the regulatory front than what transpired on the ill-fated Telstra deal," Waterer said.
Vocus declined to comment.
The Australian Financial Review had reported earlier that the parties recommenced discussions over the sale of the fibre network.
($1 = 1.5363 Australian dollars)
(Reporting by Rishav Chatterjee in Bengaluru; Editing by Mark Porter, Tom Hogue and Sherry Jacob-Phillips)
================================================================================

